we're tracking the largest wildfire in
the country right now it has burned more
than 260,000 acres and is 0% contained
according to authorities this is part of
the dirky fire in Oregon it started more
than a week ago officials say lightning
was the cause and this is new video of
the park fire in Chico California this
one is just 3% contained after scorching
more than 45,000 Acres there are dozens
more fires burning across the west coast
and Canada NBC News correspondent David
Nora is tracking this one for us from
our La Bureau so David we just got a
breaking news update on the Park fire a
man is now under arrest on suspicion of
starting it what do we
know that's right zlay the but County
district attorney says that an as yet
unnamed 42-year-old man is in its
custody expected to be arraigned on
Monday he was arrested after Witnesses
saw him pushing a car on fire into a
gulie that is what is believed to have
started this fire this happened in a
large Urban Wilderness Park it's
directly outside of the city of Chico
it's a city of about 100,000 people so a
significant population Center the fire
is very very the edge of the fire the
outer edge of the fire is only about a
mile away from the Eastern edge of the
city about 4,000 people have been
ordered evacuated so far the authorities
up in but County and a neighboring
County say that they're throwing
everything they have at this fire but
it's not enough right now it's only
about 3% contained and they have Crews
from all over the state of California on
their way up to help uh contain that
fire in clim and David of course these
fires displace people animals what
impact is it having on air quality
Health yeah well we're talking about
about 79 active large wildfires and
that's just in the United States that's
not counting the dozens in Canada as
well so this is blanketing much of the
western North American continent in
Smoke even the city of Denver which is
not particularly close to where these
fires are actually happening is
currently ranked among the cities with
the worst air quality in the world for a
second day in a row
not to mention cities like Boise Idaho
which is much closer to that largest
fire the derky fire that you mentioned
the top um a lot of people many many
many tens of thousands of people
affected by the air quality consequences
of these many wildfires some of those
images can't even see the skyline David
norga thank you thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media