two NASA astronauts on board a Boeing
capsule in space will have have to
remain there a little bit longer NASA
and Boeing just announced there is still
no return date set for the Starliner
capsule crew it has been nearly two
months since astronauts Butch Willmore
and Sunni Williams Sunny Williams
started their mission to the
International Space Station they were
supposed to only stay in space for a
week but a Thruster issue keeps delaying
their return NBC News correspondent
Jesse kersch is following this one for
us Jesse good to see you so NASA and
Boeing just wrapped up a press
conference about the Starliner crew do
we have any better time timeline for
when they could return we don't Kate at
one point we were talking about Late
July and after this latest briefing it
sounds like it's going to be sometime
next month what has to happen now is 27
of 28 thrusters on this spacecraft of a
specific type of Thruster are going to
be hot fire tested is how they described
it while the capsule is docked to the
International Space Station where those
two astronauts are right now so they're
going to do that test we're also told
that there's going to be an agency
review and that could come at the
earliest we're told late next week and
so if you do the math there we're
looking at at least another week it
sounds like before they could be leaving
the ISS on Starliner here's some of what
Boeing had to say earlier at this press
conference you know our mission was to
get the crew to ISS that's been
completed our mission was to learn from
a flight test uh a lot of the learning
that we've we've uh achieved so far
really and my opinion could only be
achieved through the flight test and now
it's time to uh get on with returning
the crew safely and there's that step
left to
go but here's the big picture Mission
Kate overall the goal is to get this
spacecraft certified for use regularly
with NASA and it's unclear if that can
still be achieved with just this one
test flight with a crew on board Kate
all right Jesse kers for us Jesse thanks
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media