welcome back vice president Harris's
campaign has clearly energized Democrats
but what about those voters outside of
the party's base specifically the voters
who are skeptical of former president
Trump they are the voters who could
decide a close election in November our
latest NBC News deciders focus group
produced in collaboration with engages
Syracuse University and SEO we talked to
some of these voters this is a group of
Republicans who backed Nikki Haley in
the Republican primary we spoke with
them on Tuesday night just two days
after President Biden stepped aside and
endorsed Harris as his successor here's
some of what they said when asked about
the new de facto Democratic
nominee vice president
Harris first word or phrase that comes
to mind everybody have
one great Barbara please go first
interesting
Jennifer condescending
Ronnie flaky or word
salad Dale
radical
Melody I want to say
intelligent intelligent is the
word okay got it just make sure um
tiarra loyal I would say a feminist
June sometimes
caddy
Audra
giggly all right
Chris
coils you said coattails right yeah all
right John
liberal Jason word salad just by a quick
show of fingers I've got I noted Audrey
and th and Tra so that you have your
fingers up among the seven of you how
many of you feel like you don't have
enough of an opinion about Vice
president Harris to render render an
opinion one way or the
other wow nearly all of
you all right NBC News senior political
editor Mark Murray joins me now I mean
this is fascinating stuff what do those
answers tell you about KL Harris's
opportunity to win over some of these
voters she might very well need yeah
Garrett so some of them are positive for
Harris that some and those were people
who we kind of found out later they
voted for Joe Biden in 2020 they were
probably going to vote for him in 2024
they've kind of been consistent
Democratic or in at least a presidential
election some of those uh descriptions
you end up hearing were absolutely harsh
and those are people who seemed to be
leaning Trump's way or might be voting
third party but to me what was
fascinating I'm really glad you played
the clip of the people raise your hands
if you want to hear more because the
question that came after this like is
there anything you dislike about Harris
and one respond end up saying I I want
to know more about her and that's what
prompted the question question who wants
to actually hear more everyone rais
their hand and so that is Harris's
biggest challenge over the next three
and a half months can she actually
describe to people who she is what she
you know we're going to probably start
hearing that from the convention but boy
we don't have a lot of time between now
and November but I will say introducing
yourself to people seems easier to me
than having to change Dead Set opinions
that might be more negative I suppose
that's a problem you could welcome if
you're the Harris campaign um age was
such a big issue in the old matchup
between these two candidates here I want
to play a little bit of what these Haley
voters said about age now that President
Biden is out of the race listen to
this so let's talk about the age issue
for a moment now that Biden is out of
the race is it persuasive for Democrats
to argue that Trump at the age of 78
would be the oldest person ever
inaugurated if he
won that his age is a legitimate concern
and that it's time for a new generation
of leaders to take over
show it fingers who thinks this is a
persuasive
argument and they put up half a finger I
want there's components that I agree
with that other components I'm like no
that's hogwash hold on a second what
Audrey tell me very quickly in interest
of time what part do you agree with in
all that I agree it's time for new
younger leadership because they're both
they were both too old in the first
place and we do need a new generation
of of political leaders I look back and
the world's different than 10 years ago
so I can't imagine the world that they
are growing up in that they think they
know that they've been separated from
for so long like like a trump or a Biden
and just the the topics and all the the
issues are so much different and they
have to be handled so much differently
because they're so used to a W's and a
Phil a political philosoph or philos
ophy that just kind of needs to change
with the time so what's interesting to
me about that is the idea of new
generational leadership was so Central
to Nikki Haley's message but it almost
sounds like perhaps Biden's presence in
the race has inoculated Donald Trump
against that attack yeah Garrett I to me
what kind of the takeaway is like how
little has actually changed given all
the events and this focus group
importantly came not only after Harris
is now the de facto nominee after Joe
Biden's exit but also after the
Republican convention after after
assassination attempt after that first
debate and what was so interesting was
like were your minds kind of changed
going into this like were you Biden
voters and have you changed and now
you're someone else and really people's
voting preference really haven't changed
all that much and so that was kind of so
taking away the age situation it's a
good messaging for the campaigns and the
candidates but it doesn't necessarily
seem to have changed voters Minds all
that much at least according to these
focus groups last question having
covered the Trump campaign for so long
it doesn't seem like like they think
they need these voters they don't seem
to be actively pursuing them who do you
think does need these kind of Voters
more in their Coalition if they want to
be the next president yeah Garrett more
of these voters are traditional
Republican voters so You' normally end
up saying Trump probably needs them more
than Harris does but look in our
polarized times when the polls show a
very close race every voter segment does
matter but what also really struck out
stuck out to me was that these voters
really like Nikki Haley like I mean they
were effusive about her loyal about her
and man that was really striking well
hey K Harris still needs to pick a vice
presidential running mate so maybe
there's there's an opportunity won Nicki
Haley to be her pick that was
fascinating all right Mark Murray thank
you for that as fascinating stuff thanks
for watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media