joining me now is Trump campaign senior
adviser Danielle Alvarez and Danielle
thanks for coming on um I want to start
by playing you something that JD Vance
said at a fundraiser and his first
appearance as the Republican Vice
Presidential nominee this was after the
assassination attempt during RNC week
let's
listen I cannot believe an assassin
tried to take down the president of the
United States I was mad about it was he
mad and angry he called for National
Unity he called for calm he showed
leadership
my friends that the media keeps on
saying they want somebody to tone down
the temperature well Donald Trump got
shot and he toned down the temperature
that's what a real leader does and then
last night we heard Trump say he's not
going to be nice anymore and call the
other side a threat to democracy that
will destroy our country he called
Harris a lunatic this is two weeks later
should we assume he is done turning down
the
temperature well I think that following
the assassination attempt it took a
leader like president Trump to uh
understand and meet the moment he stood
up he let the crowd know that he was
okay as they were waiting with baited
breath uh you know many of your
colleagues were there as well but we are
in a presidential race and the stakes
are incredibly high and kamla Harris is
dangerously liberal so we need to call
balls and Strikes like we see them it's
it's very important to call her on her
record you know she's the original
bordar she was a part of the Harris
Biden Administration that has caused
Chaos on the world stage record
inflation I mean just disaster after
disaster and it is really important that
we be honest about that record and say
it clearly because it's what the
American people will be deciding on
record is one thing I think lunatic is
another thing I want to ask you about
these different attacks that we've
started to see from the former president
and from uh members of his party both
parties are really trying to Define
kamla Harris we just talked about that
in our last segment is the Trump
campaign
decided kind of which road you want to
go down I I have a hard time combining
the messages on the one hand Trump calls
are incompetent on the other hand he
implies that she's the person behind the
scenes pulling all the strings in the
Biden White House so which is it both
things can absolutely be true she is
incompetent in the policies that she has
supported with Joe Biden let's remember
she was the deciding vote on the $ 1.9
trillion spending package uh in the
administration that rocketed us into
inflation so she is both incompetent and
failed in her leadership but she is
absolutely making those decisions she is
a failed borders are she was given that
task by Joe Biden she was in Houston
today 300 miles from the border and has
not gone to see the devastation and the
mess that her failure has resulted in
with the fentanyl pouring in with the
migrant crime Rising I mean that is
squarely on the Harris Biden
Administration and on kamla Harris who
was the original borders are I want
since you brought up the Border I want
to ask about the Trump campaign's plan
for the Border it's sort of a signature
issue for the former president as you
know we saw signs last night in
Charlotte that said Deport illegals now
now Donald Trump has said he'll
Institute the largest deportation effort
in US history but he hasn't given a lot
of details about how that will work so
I'm curious what else you can tell me
about that plan what will it cost will
he seek to deport every single
undocumented immigrant in the United
States something like 11 million people
it's a key factor in his platform the
president passed a historic platform
that he wrote himself uh you know agenda
47 and the RNC platform and it is one of
the key points it's broadly supported uh
by every American including Hispanic
Americans and the reality is is that we
cannot sustain the 10 million plus
illegal border crossings of the Biden
Harris Administration it is a failure
and Dani passing a passing a platform is
very different from passing a law I mean
I what I still haven't heard is anything
about how this would actually
work well H as we know president Trump
has a record of success of accomplishing
things when uh the Washington DC Elites
say that it can't be accomplished and so
he has said that he will secure the
Border he has said that he will Deport
illegal immigrants uh and those that
have crossed under the Biden Harris
Administration and you can definitely
take that to the bank uh you know it is
a priority of his in the administration
he's run on The Bard since 2015 it's an
issue that is top of mind for American
voters you know in the focus groups and
in the polling that we have seen it is
the number one or number two issue uh
and and it trades with inflation and the
economy and so the president is going to
take care of both of those as his record
in the white house has shown previously
I don't dispute the salience of the
issue but it's not quite clear to me
what I'm taking to the bank at this
point other than a concept I I want to
move on though we've also talked about
how your campaign wants to define the
vice president pres but I want to play a
little bit of how she's trying to Define
herself as we get into this 100 day
Sprint here listen to
this I was elected Attorney General of
the State of California and I was a
courtroom prosecutor before
then and in those roles I took on
perpetrators of all
kinds Predators who Abused
women
frauders who ripped off consumers
[Applause]
cheaters who broke the rules for their
own
gain so hear me when I
say I know Donald Trump's
type so does she what's the Trump
campaign's response to that kamla Harris
is chaotic on crime at best we know that
she was very harsh uh for minor crimes
especially as it related to the black
community uh you know went for the
harshest sentences and imprisoned black
men but then she was very soft on
illegal immigrants and we know that to
be true with the Bania family when she
would not prosecute the MS-13 gang
member who brutally murdered two members
of the family you know she never she
never pursued uh charges and never went
harshly against illegal immigrants and
it goes back to her being again chaotic
on crime soft on crime when she should
not have been uh and too harsh in other
instances and she's again it goes back
to being very weak On the Border this is
someone who in 2020 campaigned on
abolishing Ice wanted to decriminalize
border crossings we know that the top
issue for voters one of the top two at
least she is very very weak on a record
on crime that was so inconsistent that
Donald Trump wrote a check to her
campaign for attorney general after that
time as district attorney Danielle
Alvarez thank you for coming on with
this I appreciate you bringing the Trump
campaign's perspective to our viewers
thank you for having me thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

