welcome back and as we mentioned
President Biden and prime minister
Netanyahu met today with the families of
American hostages being held by Hamas
according to the White House eight
Americans are believed to still be in
Gaza five of whom are believed to still
be alive including H Goldberg Poland who
was abducted from the Nova Music
Festival by Hamas on October 7th and has
been held hostage for 293 days now his
parents Rachel Goldberg Poland and John
Poland participated in that meeting at
the White House which just wrapped up a
few minutes ago they've been gracious
enough to join me now so please take us
inside the room a little bit how did
that white house meeting go and what did
President Biden and the Prime Minister
have to
say so President Biden kicked off the
meeting by talking about some of the
personal experien he's had in his life
with challenge with loss uh and the
urgency of putting us out of our
ambiguous trauma the uncertainty of
what's going on with our loved ones and
the importance of bringing them home now
prime minister Netanyahu then basically
continued that theme and assured us that
he's doing everything he can to make it
happen and uh then the room opened for
conversation we all got to say what we
wanted to say we all impressed upon the
leaders our gratitude for what they've
done so far and our push for them to not
stop until we get all of our loved ones
out and not only to get our loved ones
out which of course was the focus of the
meeting but the importance of cing the
region everybody in the region benefits
from a hostage deal that will be part of
a ceasefire and that will enable the
whole region to figure out how to move
forward in a more peaceful way did you
get a substantive update on the status
of those ceasefire talks Administration
officials have told us that there's been
a framework agreed to but we've heard
nothing about
implementation well we also were not
privy to details um these are very
sensitive negotiations and Sation that
are going on so and and some things that
were shared with us were things that we
wouldn't
necessarily uh think are appropriate to
share forward but we're not privy to
those kind of details well then let me
ask it this way are you more confident
leaving the meeting than you were going
into it that a ceasefire could be
near I want to say I'm more confident
for a few reasons I'm more confident
based on the urgency that we heard in
the room
the cries that we heard in the room U
and the understanding of the urgency of
this moment in
addition what we also now know to be
true not necessarily from the meeting in
the room but what we know in the last
day or two to be true is global pressure
is increasing on all sides in a way
that's more likely to lead to a
productive end of this
situation um and domestically in Israel
we feel like the uh leadership across
the military and intelligence
communities feel like they have gotten
the negotiations to the point where they
think the time is ripe and we've heard
from the parties that are representing
Hamas that they believe that now the
time is right for the Hamas side as well
so all conditions seem to be coming
together but of course as we have said
we're not going to count our chickens or
our hostages until they are home in our
arms with us hugging them um
understandable you were also in that
meeting that Netanyahu held with hostage
families earlier this week we have some
reporting that basically whenever the
American families pushed the Prime
Minister on a hostage deal his aids
would call in his guests from Israel who
would basically back up his insistence
that the military still needs to go
after Hamas I'm curious after this
meeting if you feel like Netanyahu is
really listening to what you and the
other American families have been
telling him if he's sort of really
engaged with the urgency of what you're
pushing
for it certainly was what we were
hearing and I do think after the last
several days here in the United States
that prime minister Netanyahu is
understanding there is a consensus
certainly from the uh United States and
and other parties as well that now is
the time and as John said we're hearing
about the suffering not just of the
120 hostage families but also the
hundreds of thousands of gazen civili
Ians who are suffering horribly our
entire region has a surplus of pain and
Agony and it is quite clear to every
single party involved in these
negotiations that the time has come for
this to end I want to add that what's
happened this week in Washington is that
President Biden who made the Bold
announcement that he is going to step
down is clearly so fully committed to
bringing this process over the finish
line now and he could focus on it even
more more than he already has been and
the two candidates for president vice
president Harris and president Donald
Trump all three of them have been
unequivocally clear this week that this
must end so if there's any party at the
negotiating table who has some political
calculus that there's benefit in waiting
I believe that that message this week is
there isn't the deal must happen now I
I'm glad you mention that because there
have been suggestions that Netanyahu is
essentially trying to hold out until our
elections are over no November in the
hopes that he could get a better deal
from Donald Trump if he wins do you
think there are politics in this moment
that are contributing to whether or not
there's a deal we've actually heard
twice now president Trump has has issued
statements saying now is the time to get
this done this needs to be over he has
been unequivocal about that and so I
think that really shuts down that
argument what did you make of the
protests that we saw all around DC
yesterday today during prime minister
netanyahu's speech and afterwards how do
you kind of balance obviously the speech
that you trying to give the message that
you're trying to put out there with what
you're seeing uh in terms of these Pro
large scale protests around the city
here yesterday but around the country
from time to
time well part of being in a democracy
is that we do have the right to express
what we think and I actually think being
in a true vibrant democ y people are
allowed to say what they feel and what
how they understand a situation I would
say that this is a very complicated
complex layered conflict and that not
everyone is completely aware of the the
nuances involved I think there are many
of these protesters who don't even
realize that of the hostages being held
they represent 24 different nations
they are Muslim they are Jewish they are
Christian they are Buddhists they are
Hindus I we have become friendly with
one of the Muslim Arab families whose
loved ones are being held captive along
with h and one of them one of the family
members said why is no one advocating
for our family member just the there're
two of them why is no one advocating for
our Muslim Arab hostages we've heard
from some of the Thai Buddhist families
why is no one advocating for their loved
ones there are black Christian Africans
being held hostage why is you don't hear
those protest voices for those people
and I think that it's simply that they
are not aware that this is not a
monolithic group of people being held I
I I want to add more joh well John I'm
sorry I have to cut you off because we
have completely run out of time but I
thank you so much for coming on and
being willing to share your story your
family story with us and I wish you good
luck in the advocacy that you are doing
it's so important thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

