we have to go um to vice president kamla
Harris who's speaking now after her
meeting with prime
minister including from Iran and Iran
backed militias such as Hamas and hisbah
from when I was a young girl collecting
funds to plant trees for Israel to my
time in the United States Senate and now
at the White House I have had an
unwavering commitment to the existence
of the state of Israel to its security
and to the people of Israel I've said it
many times but it Bears repeating Israel
has a right to defend
itself and how it does so
matters Hamas is a brutal terrorist
organization on October 7 Hamas
triggered this war when it massacred
1,200 innocent people including 44
Americans Hamas has committed horrific
acts of sexual violence and took 250
hostages there are American citizens who
remain captive in
Gaza Sagi Deo hen hch Goldberg Poland
Edon
Alexander Keith
Seagle Omare
Nutra and the remains of American
citizens Judy
Weinstein God Hagi and eai hen are still
being held in God aaza I have met with
the families of these American hostages
multiple times now and I've told them
each time they are not alone and I stand
with
them and President Biden and I are
working every day to bring them home I
also expressed with the Prime Minister
my serious concern about the scale of
human suffering in Gaza including the
death of far too many innoc
civilians and I made clear my serious
concern about the dire humanitarian
situation there with over 2 million
people facing high levels of food
insecurity and half a million people
facing catastrophic levels of acute food
insecurity what has happened in Gaza
over the past 9 months is devastating
the images of dead children and
desperate hungry people fleeing for
safety sometimes displaced for the
second third or fourth time we cannot
look away in the face of these tragedies
we cannot allow ourselves to become numb
to the suffering and I will not be
silent thanks to the leadership of our
President Joe Biden there is a deal on
the table for a ceasefire and a hostage
deal and it is important that we recall
what the deal
involves the first phase of the deal
would bring about a full ceasefire
including a withdrawal of the Israeli
military from population centers in Gaza
in the second phase the Israeli military
would withdraw from Gaza entirely and it
would lead to a permanent end to the
hostilities it is time for this war to
end and end in a way where Israel is
secure all the hostages are released the
suffering of Palestinians in Gaza ends
and the Palestinian people can exercise
their right to Freedom dignity and
self-determination there has been
hopeful movement in the talks to secure
an agreement on this deal and as I just
told prime minister Netanyahu it is time
to get this deal
done so to everyone who has been calling
for a ceasefire and to everyone who
yearns for peace I see you and I hear
you let's get the deal done so we can
get a ceasefire to end the war let's
bring the hostages home and let's
provide much needed relief to the
Palestinian
people and ultimately I remain committed
to a path forward that can lead to a
two-state solution
and I know right now it is hard to
conceive of that Prospect but a
two-state solution is the only path that
ensures Israel remains a secure Jewish
and Democratic State and one that
ensures Palestinians can finally realize
the freedom security and prosperity that
they rightly
deserve and I will close with this then
it is important for the American people
to remember the the war in Gaza is not a
binary
issue however too often the conversation
is binary when the reality is anything
but so I ask my fellow Americans to help
encourage efforts to acknowledge the
complexity the nuance and the history of
the region let us all condemn terrorism
and violence let us all do what we can
to prevent the suffering of innocent
civilians and let us condemn
anti-Semitism islamophobia and hate of
any
kind and let us work to unite our
country I thank you thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

