tonight vice president Harris welcoming
an onstage Showdown with former
president Trump accusing him of
backpedaling from his previous
commitment to a September debate I'm
ready to debate Donald Trump I think the
voters deserve to see the split screen
that exists in this race on a debate
stage and so I'm ready let's go just
this week Mr Trump said he'd be willing
to do more than one debate with Miss
Harris but appear to bulk at the current
plan I agree to a debate with Joe Biden
uh but I want to debate her and she'll
be no different because they have the
same policies their head-to-head is
quickly heating up new polling shows the
vice president has narrowed Mr Trump's
advantage over President Biden the race
effectively a tossup on the economy
Harris today slamming the former
president's proposals as tax breaks for
billionaires America has tried these
failed economic policies
before but we are not going back we are
not going
back Mr Trump today attacking the vice
president she's the most radical person
probably that we've had an office let
alone the office of the presidency in
Charlotte last night casting aside his
promise from last week's Republican
convention that he'd strike a more
unifying tone you can't be too nice you
really can't be so if you don't mind I'm
not going to be nice is that okay it
comes as President Biden detailed his
decision to drop out of the race I
revered this off office but I love my
country more discussing his desire to
unite the country by passing The Torch
to a new generation there's also a time
and a place for new voices fresh voices
yes younger
voices and that time in place is now the
vice president soon to receive a major
boost the endorsement of former
president Obama according to people
familiar with their discussions who say
the two have been in close touch since
she announced her plans to run in this
election we each face a question the
Harris team now running with its first
campaign
video set to the Beyonce song Freedom
meanwhile Mr Trump's running mate JD
Vance is facing new backlash for his
past criticism of democratic leaders
including Miss Harris for not having
children we're effectively run in this
country via the Democrats Bea via our
corporate oligarchs by a bunch of
childless cat ladies Hollywood star
Jennifer Aniston posting all I can say
is Mr
I pray that your daughter is fortunate
enough to Bear children of her own one
day and the second gentleman's first
wife Kirsten mhof praising the vice
president as a co-parent to the mhof
children I love our blended family and
I'm grateful to have her in
it and Peter we are in the very early
days of the Harris campaign but they're
already embracing a different approach
yeah that's right Tom I think in both
style and strategy stylistically the
vice president of course is a younger
cand candidate embracing pop culture
memes and appealing to younger voters
who had been less enthusiastic about
President Biden but also perhaps
strategically a different electoral map
the Harris campaign now hoping that her
candidacy will mobilize different
demographics including Southern black
voters in States like Georgia where vice
president Harris will head early next
week Tom thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

