tonight A West Coast furnace turned
Inferno California's Park fire exploding
overnight forcing residents to evacuate
in Chico north of Sacramento the heat is
insane spot fires everywhere in less
than 24 hours the wind driven Inferno
scorched more than 70,000 Acres entire
homes and buildings engulfed in flames
that authorities are now calling an act
of arson arresting A 42-year-old man
from Chico for pushing a flaming car
into a ravine which they say started the
fire just outside Cohasset smoldering
debris is All That Remains where homes
once stood here in bu County Crews have
already made their way back to several
remote areas trying to cut fire line
wherever they can to slow the spread
from California to Canada months without
rain and record highs has turned much of
the West into a Tinder Box the dur fire
in Oregon is now the nation's largest
charring nearly a qu million Acres since
IGN in from a lightning strike last week
The Blaze so big it's creating its own
weather with extreme heat forming a fire
fuel thunderstorm carrying smoke and Ash
even farther as Crews from 22 States
fight 24/7 to contain it a similar
struggle in Alberta Canada the
picturesque town of Jasper now facing
near apocalyptic scenes as flames close
in the fire smoke so thick it's impacted
air quality as far south as Colorado
with a gray Haze hanging heavy back near
Chico with flames far from contained
evacuation orders remain ongoing the
quicker you get out the safer you will
be and tonight as this fire very much
keeps burning a frightening Deja Vu it
was six years ago that a wildfire left
85 people dead and destroyed nearly 90%
of the town of paradise some of those
survivors resettling in North Chico in
an area that tonight is frighteningly
close to this very fire Tom thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

