want to bring in Mark Murray now because
we talk about polling here and looking
at the matchup between um vice president
K haris and Donald Trump I know there's
some new polling out um from The New
York Times also looking at young people
I think it's important to note here as
we're thinking about this conversation
that's being had right now between prime
minister BB Netanyahu along with vice
president um KLA Harris walk us through
some of the things that stood out to you
mark yeah let me break down the numbers
for you Yasmin and overall this is a
really close and competitive race after
President Biden's exit from the 202 uh 4
presidential contest the poll overall
has Donald Trump ahead by 1 percentage
Point among likely voters that's well
within the poll's margin of error and
notably it's actually a much closer
contest than it was right after that
poor debate performance by Joe Biden
When Donald Trump had a six-point lead
among likely voters but Yasmin you asked
about young voters in this and in this
current matchup Harris is has about a
20-point lead among young voters over
Donald Trump and that is a much wider
lead than we've seen in past polling and
that's just not the only poll that shows
uh uh Harris doing better among young
voters than Biden was doing but worth
also noting Yasmin that we end up seeing
in this New York Times Sienna College
poll that Donald Trump's actually doing
a little bit better with seniors than he
was doing when Joe Biden was his
opponent so a little yin and yang uh
when we look at the youth vote versus
seniors um I also think it's interesting
because as this new poll is coming out
we're just seeing Harris's stepdaughter
kind of hit back at at these resurface
comments from JD Vance back uh in 2021
Mark where he said the country was being
led and I'm quoting here by the way a
bunch of
childless cat ladies walk us through
that yeah and of course that's U from
older footage from from JD Vance and
really kind of going to the point that
kamla Harris doesn't have children of
her own but as uh uh she in her campaign
are fighting back and also her
stepchildren are pointing out that you
know kamla Harris has stepchildren and
has been an active mother uh helping to
raise them uh uh uh and so you know this
is actually being litigated but yasine
when we're talking about the polling
it's also worth noting the humongous
gender gap that we are seeing between
men and female respondents where Donald
Trump has a very very large lead among
men but Harris has a really big lead
among women and uh we are seeing a lot
of social media uh responses coming from
women who did not like those that prior
and previous JD Vance response all right
Mark Murray Forest thank you Mark I
appreciate it thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

