President Biden and Israel's prime
minister Benjamin nanyu at their first
meeting since the early days of the war
well welcome back Mr Prime Ministry we
got a lot to talk about with time now
running out to close a ceasefire and
hostage deal before he leaves office Mr
Biden pressing the Israel leader on a
ceasefire it's time now to get the
negotiation in place and get the
hostages home it's time to end the war
shame shame shame on you netanyahu's
visit sparking days of outrage today
protesters rallying near the White House
yesterday police used pepper spray as
hundreds demonstrated around the capital
painted pro- Hamas and anti-semitic
graffiti burned an American flag and
raised Palestinian Flags actions
strongly condemned by Congressional
leaders in both parties and by vice
president kamla Harris today the White
House also putting Netanyahu on the spot
by inviting American hostage families to
meet with him and the president in the
cabinet room we got absolute commitment
from the Biden Administration and from
prime minister Netanyahu that they
understand the urgency of this moment
now aiva seagull her American husband
Keith a hostage she was released after
51 days but saw the horrors firsthand I
want everybody just to
imagine any girl that's a young girl
that's never been touched she's lying on
a mattress on the floor and just praying
please just that he won't tell me to
come this time and do what he did
yesterday I'm very very worried I do not
want Keith to come back
Ted and I want all the host teaches to
come back as soon as possible because we
hear about more and more of them that
are killed even as the IDF recovered
five more bodies of Israeli hostages
from a tunnel in con yunas who had been
killed on October 7th and late today
vice president Harris and Netanyahu in
their first meeting since Biden dropped
out of the 2024 race Harris declined to
preside over netanyahu's speech to
Congress Donald Trump's running mate
Senator JD Vance also not there I also
expressed with the Prime Minister my
serious concern about the scale of human
suffering in Gaza including the death of
far too many innocent civilians tomorrow
Netanyahu flies to maralago to see
former president Trump who said today he
wants him to get the war done quickly
Tom thanks for watching stay at updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media