a major change of course for Southwest
Airlines announcing today it will soon
start assigning seats and selling some
with extra leg room ending more than 50
years of its famous or for some Infamous
model of open seating where boarding can
build into a Mad Dash you got people
just running in front of you and while
some Southwest super fans are
disappointed I love open seating that's
why I Fly Southwest the discount carrier
CEO says the move is a bid to boost
Revenue new and adapt to Travelers
evolving tastes reporting 80% of
Southwest customers want an assigned
seat especially on longer flights when a
customer defects from Southwest to
another competitor it's the number one
reason so it's the right thing at the
right time despite this Summer's record
travel many airlines are grappling with
overc capacity Southwest recorded a 46%
drop in profit from last year facing
growing rivalries with other budget
options what kind of headwinds is the
airline facing right now they have
simply added too many seats when it
comes to basic economy seats in other
words the seats that people are buying
at the lowest possible fair so many have
been added into the system not just by
Southwest but by other airlines as well
it's put a lid on
fairs Southwest says bookings for
assigned and premium seats will become
available sometime next year the change
still requires updating the cabin layout
and FAA approval Tom thanks for watching
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media
