tonight the woman dubbed the Gucci
goddess is behind bars where she
sentenced to spend the next 15 years
former US civilian Army employee Janet
Melo found guilty of stealing nearly $19
million originally meant for children
and military families instead used for
her own personal luxury from high-end
jewelry and fancy cars to Lavish homes
this was the largest the largest fraud
the United States Army has seen by a
single individual working as a financial
program manager for the US Army in areas
including Youth Services prosecutor SE
Melo created a sham business called
child health and youth lifelong
development or child with a why adding
that she routinely betrayed the trust of
colleagues to get approvals sometimes
even forging signatures to fraudulently
secure grants the millions of dollars
meant for military children instead
deposited into her own personal bank
account the military families didn't see
a penny over a period of 6 years
military children who themselves make
sacrifices as their parents serve our
nation missed out on essential funding
that did not re and did not receive the
benefits they would have received if not
for this scheme instead her scheming
funded at least 31 pieces of real estate
like these lavish mansions and ranches
scattered throughout the country 82
different Vehicles like motorcycles and
classic cars Melo even spent $923,000
on jewelry in one day just a fraction of
the total spent for more than 1,500
pieces the forfeiture process is
underway and we're committed to return
as much as possible back to the
intendant beneficiaries as investigators
work to recover those misappropriated
funds Melo was sentenced after pleading
guilty to five counts of male fraud and
five counts of filing a false tax return
Miss Melo was very remorseful for her
actions we believe that um the the
sentence that was recommended by the
guidelines uh was appropriate and we
believe that maybe she should have
gotten something a little bit less this
was in light of the fact that she
cooperated uh she returned a lot of the
money and we expect that a lot more is
going to be returned in the future but
prosecutors standing firm on the
sentence saying 15 years is more than
fair we need to send a really strong
message that you will not be able to do
this we will not tolerate it Rara NBC
news thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top story
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

