we have been following that story of an
American woman who went missing from a
yoga retreat in the Bahamas last month
tonight NBC News is the first US Outlet
to report that another American went
missing from that same Retreat over a
decade ago 52-year-old Wesley Bell
disappeared from there uh back in 2013
after he wandered off to go snorkeling
according to someone who was on The
Retreat with him it appears there's no
evidence of Foul Play in Belle's case
but police have not commented so far on
this matter drawing parallels to this
year's June disappearance of Taylor
Casey want to bring out um NBC outs Matt
levitus uh who broke the story for us
and joining me now um this is
fascinating intriguing a lot a lot of
questions it seems and not a lot of
answers um let's talk about this
discovery of of Wesley Bell a decade ago
and his disappearance is there any
connection between his disappearance and
the one we learned about in June so
right so so right now police have not
returned our request for comment I spoke
with Wesley's Father Don earlier in the
week who said that there was a massive
search for his son but they were not
successful they did not find his body um
he believed that his son drowned I also
spoke with a woman who was with Wesley
on that Retreat back in
2013 um she said that he went snorkeling
the day before he disappeared they found
his clothes and his hat on the beach the
next day um as of right now we do not
have any reason to believe that these
cases are connected except for the fact
that both of these people went missing
while they were on this Yoga Retreat so
so then there's Taylor Casey and and
Taylor's family did actually not reveal
that she was a transwoman initially when
she went missing because they were
afraid it would distract from the
investigation where are we on on this
investigation as to what happened to her
and and have we heard anything else from
the family right so when they initially
when her family initially started
speaking with the media they did not
disclose that she was transgender which
raises a ton of questions as to whether
or not she could have been targeted for
her gender identity now I spoke with her
mom who said that she didn't want uh the
media to know because she thought that
the media might actually disparage her
daughter um for her gender identity or
that they wouldn't take the case as
seriously where that case stands today
police found Taylor's phone in the ocean
several weeks ago more recently they
told us that they were not able to
recover any sort of information on that
phone but with this new information that
someone went missing 10 years at the
exact same Yoga Retreat we have more
questions than we do answers certainly
Matt lius thank you appreciate it thanks
for watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

