turning now to the severe weather out
west in Northern California a man now
under arrest accused of sparking the
state's largest active wild fire this
year as of late Thursday the park fire
had spread to more than 120,000 Acres
damaging multiple homes NBC News
correspondent Morgan chesky joins us now
from Chico California with the latest
Morgan good morning so the park fire has
forced widespread evacuation orders and
warnings in addition to devastating many
homes what's the situation this morning
yeah Joe it has continued to grow
incredibly rapidly here just north of us
in Chico in day one we saw it burn more
than 50,000 Acres at last check it's now
burned more than
150,000 Acres a thanks in large part to
just vast wooded areas uh that high
winds have pushed these Flames through
forcing those evacuations as you
mentioned fortunately no deaths no
injuries to report right now Joe but I
can tell you that this particular fire
is bringing a bit of frightening deja vu
in that there was 6 years ago we had
more than 80 people killed in the deadly
fire in Paradise uh that destroyed 90%
of that town some of those Town
survivors Joe resettled in a
neighborhood here in North Chico that
had to be evacuated because of this very
fire so this is a community that has
seen the destruction uh firsthand and
that is why there is still a lot of
folks on edge here even though for the
most part this fire appears to be
burning to the north away from the more
populated areas Here sign of just how
hard it can be to escape the threat of
these wildfires these days so I mean
Morgan a surprising number of wildfires
are started by arson we now know A
42-year-old man has been arrested for
sparking the massive Wildfire um what do
we know about this suspect and and how
police believe he started
it yeah authorities took him into
custody and announced some more details
about how they believe this started
saying that this man on Wednesday
afternoon was witnessed pushing a
flaming car into a ravine the reason
still unknown he has been taken into
custody he is facing those arson charges
but we don't know exactly what motivated
him to do so and Joe they say that they
believe that flaming car was the
Catalyst for this now more than 150,000
acre fire the largest in our state that
is currently at last just 3% contained
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

