we turn now to that major presidential
endorsement for vice president kamla
Harris she announced that was announced
earlier today take a
listen we call to say Michelle and I
couldn't be prouder to endorse you and
to do everything we can to get you
through this election and into the over
oh my goodness Michelle Brock this means
so much to
me former president Barack Obama and
former First Lady Michelle Obama are the
final key players in the Democratic
Party to throw their support behind
Harris now this comes less than a week
after President Biden dropped his bid
for re-election we want to go to NBC
News White House correspondent Aon
Gilchrist for more on this so Aaron what
role do the Obama hope to play on the
campaign Trail to help get Alis Harris
elected and also take us back to how
long they have all known each other and
their political
relationship well yeah this is the
relationship that has spend many years
Vicki uh kamla Harris endorsed Senator
Obama when he was running for president
back in 2008 and that's really been a
feature of their relationship over the
years endorsing supporting each other as
they've run for office when uh kamla
Harris ran for the Attorney General of
Cal California President Obama endorsed
her then uh and so this has been the
nature of their relationship really from
that point up until this point one of
really support uh we know that there
have been conversations between the
former president and the vice president
over the last several days since
President Biden decided that he was
going to be leaving the race uh and that
he President Obama has been supportive
of what vice president Harris has been
trying to do we understand from AIDS to
both of their teams that they have been
trying to figure out when and how
President Obama and the former first
lady can show up physically with uh vice
president Harris on the campaign Trail
we don't have dates exactly nailed down
Vicki really the Obamas have been very
strategic and very careful about when
and how they show up and lend their
support they sort of stand back for the
most part and when they think they can
be most effective in helping to uh get
Democrats into office in different
places at different times then they step
up and they make their voices heard all
right NBC News White House correspondent
Aon Gilchrist Aaron thank you so much
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

