the autopsy report has been released for
Sonia Massie the black woman from
Illinois who was shot and killed by a
sheriff's deputy inside her home after
she called 911 for help it concludes the
36-year-old mother of two died from a
gunshot wound to the Head earlier this
week the coroner said her death was a
homicide body camera video shows
deputies responding to massie's house
after she called about a possible
Intruder Massie is heard in the footage
asking officers quote please don't hurt
me shots were fired after she picked up
what appears to be a pot of boiling
water from her stove the family says
Massie was unarmed Deputy Shawn Grayson
was fired and has pleaded not guilty to
charges including first-degree murder he
was arrested and remains in custody NBC
News correspondent Maggie vesa has been
following this story so Maggie the
family and their lawyer who is prominent
civil rights attorney Ben Crump did
speak about these autopsy results just a
short time ago what did they say they
said they're absolutely gutting in clay
as we expected but they also said it
shows something really clear and that
not just that Sonia Massie according to
the coroner was shot in the head but
that she was shot in her left eye
specifically her lower left eyelid and
the autopsy results show the bullet
actually traveled downward and exited
the base of her neck and what they say
that means is that and we appear to see
this in the body camera video of this
shooting Sonia Massie was shot at a
downward trajectory you see her kind of
drop to the ground and seemed to cower
uh when the deputy initially draws his
weapon and she stayed on the ground in
the moments before she was shot and they
say you can see Crump pointing it out
there they say that clearly shows that
they say this was an abuse of power and
that this was an excessive that the
deputy was standing she was crouching
and sinay they say it's clear that she
was not a threat in that moment yeah the
details are just difficult to hold in
this story Maggie NBC news of course has
been digging through Sheriff's
Department Personnel files on that
former deputy Shawn Grayson we learned
new details about his time at a previous
Sheriff's Office he worked for tell us
more about that and also have we heard
from Shawn
Grayson we have not heard from shanon
Grayson via his attorney he's in custody
his attorney's not commenting um our
digital team has done a lot of digging
on this and basically what we found is
that he has worked at six law
enforcement agencies since 2020 largely
in Central Illinois where this happened
the one that he was at prior to the
sangan county sheriff's department as
Logan County and records show that he
had two reports or claims against him of
misconduct of abuse of power and
basically inappropriate behavior during
an arrest wa to be clear those were
later found to be un founded complaints
against him and he left that department
in good standing we've also though
uncovered that prior to working in law
enforcement he served in the Army for
two years and was discharged according
to one document for misconduct during
that time in the Army he pleaded guilty
twice to driving under the influence of
alcohol so the family says looking at
this past looking at how many jobs he
had in the last four years looking at
those allegations they really believe
that he never should have been hired in
the first place here is what Crump had
to say about this earlier
today were there red flags
missed and should he have been hired in
the first place by the sheriff's
department those questions only get
louder now the sangman county sheriff
has put out several statements
condemning Grayson's actions during the
shooting he's been fired from his job
but we've asked specifically and
explicitly about these allegations that
he should have never been hired that he
had a checkered past essentially
according to the family the sheriff has
yet to respond to those questions and to
those allegations specifically but we'll
keep trying once again Shan Grayson has
pleaded not guilty to three counts of
first-degree murder and his lawyers in
Clay is not commenting at this time
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

