heard from the vice president not a
difference in policy but certainly
notable differences in tone what do you
make of those nuances absolutely you've
got it and that was the perfect part of
her comments last night because she was
emphasizing the humanitarian disaster
the need to get the hostages home uh the
the need to end the war which is not the
first emphasis of Netanyahu that's not
what he wanted to project but he came
here thinking he was going to have this
great stage and instead unexpectedly the
president of the United States is
standing down from the campaign and now
the likely you Democratic you know Santa
bear is going to be the vice president
he's met her once in 2017 when she was a
Senator but they don't have that
relationship that he had with Joe Biden
which was of such longing that there was
a lot of friction built into it from a
lot of disagreements anybody for 40
years and get along the whole time you
know it's like a actually this wasn't a
good marriage this was a bad marriage
but they managed to keep it together in
any case uh she puts the emphasis more
on the humanitarian crisis she go she
has a lifelong commitment to Israel as a
little girl she raised money for the
state of Israel the planting of trees
she's married to a Jewish man they're
observant they follow the holidays he
has been Doug ghof has been campaigning
and making speeches all over over the
country for the past year about the the
scourge of anti-i sort of the point
person for the administration on that
issue and it's deeply felt so she has
her street credit on all of that but she
puts a lot of emphasis more than the
administration did early on after some
disastrous air strikes in Gaza 3 weeks
into the war um she was noting true to
her values the devastation the famine
and the need to get the hostages home
and the president come around to that
Tony blink was there as well long before
but certainly that's not where Netanyahu
is and he keeps raising new obstacles on
a deal that's on the table in addition
to which n comes to the White House he's
been trying to get this meeting for
three years Garrett and he finally gets
it but he also has to attend a meeting
with the American hostage families right
who were already angry at him because
they were invited to quote intimate
meeting with him Monday night at his
hotel and they discovered he had brought
a lot of his IES who were supporters of
his on his plane and they were
dominating the meeting we and we had
some of those families on this broadcast
yesterday what what do you make of the
effort that the prime minister went to
to go down to Florida to meet with
Donald Trump who he'd not met with in
person what does that tell you about how
he views the domestic political
situation here in the United States and
what do you make of the theory that he'd
rather be working on this issue with
Donald Trump come next January than
trying to find the ceasefire deal right
now with Joe Biden you know and as
you've reported they had their own you
know friction their own moments but
clearly he is more comfortable with
Donald Trump first of all he prolonged
his trip he needed to be back we were
told that he had to be back by 8:00
tonight isra time Friday night the
Sabbath to observe the sabbath instead
he's staying over until the Sabbath is
over another 24 Hours by that detour to
Mar he was supposed to leave Thursday
night and also uh praising him in his
speech to the Joy meeting and his very
hard-right National Security adviser
edar Ben benir the day of the speech
announced that he was endorsing Donald
Trump cabinet me members in Allied
governments do not endorse opposition
you know candidates in the middle of a
campaign a lot going on under the
surface here all politics is local I
appreciate you for breaking down the
international to the local about how all
of this is connected Andre Mitchell we
have to leave it there thank you thanks
for watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

