all right maybe you're like me when you
hear rugby you think it's kind of like
football without the pads well let's
talk about rugby sevens it's shorter
it's faster it's higher scoring and it's
an Olympic sport so let's break down how
to keep score in Olympic rugby and again
sevens is the name of the game here
you've got seven players on each team on
the field at each time and you've got
two seven minute halfs so this is a
14-minute game it's a short one the goal
in sevens is easy enough it's to score
the most points but how do you score
points well the simplest way is by
getting what's known as a try what is a
try well take a look you see here this
is the layout of the Rugby field it does
kind of look like a football field and
the idea with a try is to get the ball
into the other team's try Zone again
it's a lot like football here you see
the running back running the ball into
the end zone and scoring points but
here's the catch when it comes to sevens
this is the goal line and this is the TR
Zone but what do you notice player is
still running that's because you don't
score a try unless you actually put the
ball on the ground in the TR zone so
check this out watch the play continue
here in the TR Zone in there player at
that point puts the ball on the ground
play stops the try is scored if a team
gets a try they then attempt a
conversion you've got to drop kick the
ball get it through the goal post now
that drop kick can be attempted at any
distance you want from the goal post but
here is the catch it has to be in a
direct line from where the tri was scor
scored from where the ball went down
here's an example where if a player had
crossed into the TR Zone and just put
the ball down right here well look what
happens you need to get an angle you
need to get a good angle to get that
drop kick through the goal poost which
means you probably got to go back a
pretty good distance to get that angle
so this is why that player we just
showed you kept running to the middle of
the tri Zone because look what happens
if you go down in the middle of the
trizone you don't have to go back far at
all and you get a straight simple direct
conversion attempt how many points is
all of this worth well the try itself is
worth five points and then if you can
convert the try with that drop kick it's
worth two points so that's a total
possible of seven
points y after a try play restarts with
one team drop kicking the ball toward
the other team's end of the field now
once someone has possession of the ball
there are three things they can do with
it this is one of them they can kick the
ball you see a player there kicks it
straight down field this player is
kicking it hoping a teammate can get to
another thing you can do with the ball
you can pass the ball the key here is
the pass has to be either backwards to
your teammate or lateral this is like
football you cannot have a forward pass
once you're running down the field with
the ball the other thing you could run
the ball yourself see if you could take
it all the way to the TR zone or maybe
you'll miss and you'll get
tackled now when someone with the ball
is tackled play does not stop instead
the ball handler has to release the ball
and the tackler has to let go of that
play player the ball handler often
attempts in this situation to drop the
ball back to a teammate and play would
then
continue now because rugby sevens has
fewer players on the same large field as
traditional rugby it means there's going
to be more Breakaway runs and more
scoring all right well I think I'm ready
to watch some rugby sevens and I hope
you are too and I hope you'll keep
watching as we look at more rules more
ways to score more ways to win in
Olympic sports
[Music]
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

