Lester we're under that Red Flag Warning
tonight because as you can see
conditions are absolutely Prime for
these Flames to catch just a little wind
and take off in less than 24 hours this
Park fire has doubled in size and
tonight crews are absolutely racing to
contain it day three of a fierce
firefight and a frightening reality
setting in zero containment on
California's largest Wildfire this year
Flames tearing through Hills North of
Chico where Gusty winds and bone dry
fuel have turned this Park fire into a
monster propane tanks warning with a
fiery hiss before the
inevitable so far the blaz has scorched
more than 170,000 Acres destroying at
least 130 buildings and threatens up to
4,000 more cameras caught a rotating
plume likely hiding a rare fire tornado
this is a extraordinarily rugged terrain
it is a very very hard fire for them to
fight authorities blaming all of it on
this man 42-year-old Ronny Dean Stout II
arresting him on suspicion of arson he
set the car fire uh then uh put it in
neutral and push it over a Ravine and
people were witnessing that tonight
nearly a million people remain under red
flag warnings along the west coast in
Oregon west of where crews are fighting
to contain the massive Durkee fire an
air tanker crashed killing the solo
pilot on board back in California
evacuees wait and worry not knowing
where the fire will go next if I go home
and there's nothing it's going to be
really bad Morgan chesky NBC
news thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media