welcomed Israel's prime minister to
maral Lago one day after netanyahu's
White House meetings Mr Trump used the
formal setting to criticize vice
president Harris she's a radical left
person San Francisco destroyed San
Francisco she's really a destroyer for
kamla Harris today's power relationship
is a new endorsement from Barack and
Michelle Obama phoned in for a campaign
video Michelle and I couldn't be prder
to endorse you and to do everything we
can to get you through this election and
into the Oval Office Hara spent today on
internal meetings as her campaign said
vetting potential running mates has
begun in Earnest I am proud of the work
that I do here in Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro among
a dozen Democrats under consideration
the vice president president has a
deeply personal decision to make Trump
running mate Senator JD Vance was asked
today about his 2021 comment that
referenced Harris and said this we're
effectively run in this country via the
Democrats Bea via our corporate
oligarchs by a bunch of childless cat
ladies and today obviously it was a
sarcastic comment I've got nothing
against cats then he said he had a
broader Point kids this is about
criticizing the Democratic party for
becoming anti-am and anti- child
potential Harris running mate Arizona
Senator Mark Kelly fired back utterly
ridiculous and obnoxious and wrong what
I really worry about is what he would do
being One Heartbeat Away from the
presidency and Kelly former president
Trump says he wants to go back to
Pennsylvania not simply because it's a
Battleground State that's right Mr Trump
posted on social media that he intends
to go back to the community of Butler
where the assassination attempt happened
two weeks ago that killed a father and
left two others in the crowd injured the
Trump campaign says it's no longer doing
outdoor rallies and no date for the
return to Butler has been given Lester
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media