tonight after Decades of evading
authorities two alleged leaders of
Mexico's most brutal and Powerful drug
cartel are in US
custody waim Guzman Lopez the
37-year-old son of caloa cartel boss Wen
elchapo Guzman and the cartel's
co-founder Ismael ELO zambara Garcia age
75 arrested after landing in a private
plane in New Mexico both men are facing
multiple charges in the United States
for leading the cartel's criminal
operations including its deadly drug
manufacturing and trafficking networks
three law enforcement officials tell NBC
News investigators believe Guzman Lopez
may have fooled El Mayo into getting on
the plane possibly under the impression
Guzman Lopez would get more favorable
treatment from authorities Elmo is one
of the dea's most wanted fugitives
accused of funneling huge quantities of
fenel and Other Drugs to us streets
there were an estimated 108,000 drug
overdose deaths in the US last year
according to the CDC with an estimated
75,000 caused by synthetic opioids
including fenel ELO and Guzman Lopez
join a growing list of caloa cartel
leaders and Associates who the justice
department is holding accountable in the
United States among those being held
accountable El Chapo who was captured in
Mexico and extradited to the US in 2016
he is currently serving a life sentence
in a maximum sec security prison after
being convicted of drug trafficking
money laundering and weapons charges
four of El Chapo's Sons known as the
chapitos are thought to have taken up
cartel operations after their father's
arrest they often torture and kill their
victims they have fed some of their
victims dead and alive to Tigers
belonging to the chapitos tonight two of
the chapito are in
custody last year ovido Guzman Lopez was
arrested and extra Ed to the US in
September he pled not guilty to drug and
moneya laundering charges President
Biden commending The Joint Homeland
Security DEA and FBI effort saying quote
too many of our citizens have lost their
lives to the scourge of fenel too many
families have been broken and are
suffering because of this destructive
drug the justice department will not
rest until every single cartel leader
member and Associate responsible for
poisoning our communities is held
accountable tonight it remains to be
seen whether Guzman Lopez will get any
of the leniency he was hoping for
justice and intelligence correspondent
kend delanian joins us now Ken these men
landed in New Mexico then flew to El
Paso where they were arrested as we saw
in your piece so what comes
next and Valerie Guzman Lopez waved his
first appearance and so he was flowing
in an FBI plane to Chicago where we
believe he's going to face some sort of
federal criminal charges but it it it
appears the fate of these men will
diverge because Guzman Lopez made a deal
here he's clearly going to get some
benefit for that ELO is one of the most
Wanted drug lords in the world and the
US is likely to try to throw the book at
him there are a number of We Believe
indictments around the country uh
possible charges that he could face and
if he follows the fate of El Chapo his
co-founder of the caloa cartel he would
end up life in prison in a maximum
security facility somewhere in the
bowels of the federal prison system
Valerie all right kend delanian thank
you thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media
