tonight let the games begin the opening
ceremony kicking off the 2024 Summer
Olympics here in Paris the first ever
floating opening ceremony Team USA led
by flag bearers LeBron James and Coco go
as more than 7,000 athletes sailed along
the sun Lady Gaga performing in pink and
the stunning sight the Olympic cauldron
lit and floating up into the sky then
the incredible comeback Seline Deion her
first live performance in years after a
debilitating Health Battle all of it
coming hours after a massive attack
paralyzed Francis train Network chaos
for hundreds of thousands of Travelers
who was behind it also tonight
California's largest Wildfire of the
Year doubling to 178,000 acres in 24
hours more than 100 homes and structures
destroyed in Oregon an air tanker
crashing while battling a blaze kamla
Harris getting a big endorsement from
the Obamas and our exclusive reportings
Harris's phone call to the family of an
Illinois woman fatally shot by police
her message to them Donald Trump's
meeting with Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu
and what he said today about returning
to the site of his attempted
assassination and one of Team USA's
biggest stars Katie Lei can she shatter
her own records as she swims for gold
here in
Paris this is NBC Nightly News reporting
tonight from the Olympic in Paris here
is Lester
Holt good evening and welcome from
Opening ceremony of 2024 Paris Olympics
beautiful Paris for the opening of the
2024 Summer Olympics was celebrated in
spectacular and very much French fashion
tonight the lavish opening ceremony
turning the entire French capital from
its iconic landmarks to the river s into
its stage Team USA athletes clad in
ponchos on this rainy night in a
floating procession unlike anything
we've witnessed at an Olympic opening
the spectacle playing out against a
security threat that brought Paris to a
virtual halt earlier today just hours
after a coordinated sabotage attack
directed at France's high-speed rail
network stranded thousands of Travelers
and Tom yamas is here to lead our
coverage Tom Paris was in full display
today that's right Lester Paris had
planned every second of this opening
ceremony but even they were surprised
including with that rail attack this
morning but also something they couldn't
stop the rain Paris promised the world a
show like no other and they
delivered it was as spectacular as
advertised on a Rainy Night in Paris the
first ever floating opening ceremony
featured a zipline to notredam a light
show at the Eiffel
Tower and performances by Lady
[Music]
Gaga and Seline Dion returning to the
stage after battling serious health
issues leading team USA's vote through a
downpour and down the send flag Bears
LeBron James and Coco go the atmosphere
on board electric if a little wet we are
out here in Paris getting ready to go on
our tour of the world Sprinter Noah ly
sharing an inside look on social media
people Gathering to watch on balconies
and at parties NBC news's Kier Simmons
was along the Route in the pouring rain
USA under the I to there so many of them
while an estimated 300,000 Spectators in
124 Grand stance line the sen some
45,000 police officers on hand but today
paris's security apparatus tested just
hours before the opening ceremony a
massive coordinated attack targeting
France's high-speed Railways French
officials say it was an act of sabotage
fiber optic C at three locations were
set on fire this is one of the main
reasons why the French are calling this
a massive attack look at all these
people sitting here waiting for hours
they're looking up at the boards at
trains that are not taking off and the
frustration is building it's quite
paralyzed we're dependent on our train
system two senior law enforcement
officials tell NBC News early
intelligence indicates far- leftist
groups may be behind the attack repairs
are now underway officials say travel
for up to 800,000 people could be imp
impacted through the weekend but they
insist the attack won't have a direct
impact on the Olympics which already
have an unprecedented level of security
this was the scene earlier in the day
the streets of Paris A bit chaotic right
now thousands of people trying to get
into the opening ceremony police have it
under control but there are so many
people intersections are being blocked
some of these people have tickets but
many do not the Olympic Spirit though
winning out ignited at one point by
Snoop do one of the spinal torch Bears
tonight two French Olympians use that
flame to light a Giant floating Olympic
cauldron shaped like a hot air balloon
marking the official start to the Paris
Olympics Tom yamas NBC News
Paris in the American West a pilot
California wildfire explodes to 178,000 acres
fighting a wildfire was killed when his
air tanker went down it comes as massive
wildfires are burning out of control
Morgan chesky is on the front lines of
the park fire in California l we're
under that Red Flag Warning tonight
because as you can see conditions are
absolutely Prime for these Flames to
catch just a little wind and take off in
less than 24 hours this Park fire has
doubled in size and tonight crews are
absolutely racing to contain it day
three of a fierce firefight and a
frightening reality setting in zero
containment on California's largest
Wildfire this year Flames tearing
through Hills North of Chico where Gusty
winds and bone dry fuel have turned this
Park fire into a
monster propane tanks warning with a
fiery hiss before the
inevitable so far the blaze has scorched
more than 170,000 Acres destroying at
least 130 buildings and threatens up to
4,000 more cameras caught a rotating
plume likely hiding a rare fire tornado
this is an extraordinarily rugged
terrain it is a very very hard fire for
them to fight authorities blaming all of
it on this man 42-year-old Ronnie Dean
Stout II arresting him on suspicion of
arson he set the car fire uh then uh put
it neutral and push it over a Ravine and
people were witnessing that tonight
nearly a million people remain under red
flag warnings along the west coast in
Oregon west of where crews are fighting
to contain the massive Durkee fire an
air tanker crashed killing the solo
pilot on board back in California
evacuees wait and
not knowing where the fire will go next
if I go home and there's nothing it's
going to be really bad Morgan chesky NBC
News we'll turn to the presidential race
Trump meets with Netanyahu at Mar-a-Lago
now in a formal endorsement of kamla
Harris today by the Obamas as former
president Donald Trump met with Israel's
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu Kelly
O'Donnell has late
details 2024's power of relationships
greatest
former president Trump welcomed Israel's
prime minister to maral Lago one day
after netanyahu's White House meetings
Mr Trump used the formal setting to
criticize vice president Harris which's
a radical left person San Francisco
destroyed San
Francisco she's really a destroyer for
kamla Harris today's power relationship
is a new endorsement from Barack and
Michelle Obama phoned in for a campaign
video Michelle and I couldn't be prouder
to endorse you and to do everything we
can to get you through this election and
into the over off Hara spent today on
internal meetings as her campaign said
vetting potential running mates has
begun in Earnest I'm proud of the work
that I do here in Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro among
a dozen Democrats
underconsideration the vice president
has a deeply personal decision to make
Trump running mate senator D Vance was
asked today about his 2021 comment that
referenced Harris and said this we're
effectively run in this country via the
Democrats via VIA our corporate
oligarchs by a bunch of childless cat
ladies and today obviously it was a
sarcastic comment I've got nothing
against cats then he said he had a
broader point this is about criticizing
the Democratic party for becoming
anti-am and anti-child potential Harris
running mate Arizona Senator Mark Kelly
fired back which is utterly ridiculous
and obnoxious and wrong what I really
worry about is what he would do being
One Heartbeat Away from the presidency
and tonight the FBI says that it finds
that Mr Trump's ear injury was caused by
a bullet or a bullet fragment from the
gunman's weapon after the FBI director
had said it may have been shrapnel at a
hearing this week Mr Trump posted that
he intends to go back to Butler
Pennsylvania for another rally that
would honor the victims of the
assassination attempt Lester all right
Kelly O'Donnell thank you also today
New details in police shooting of Sonya Massey
vice president KLA Harris called the
family of Sonia Massie the black woman
who was shot to death in her Illinois
home by a sheriff's deputy massie's
father tells NBC News Harris expressed
her condolences as we learn more about
the shooting and the deputy here's
Maggie
veso tonight a new chapter in the tragic
Saga of Sonia Massie autopsy results
showing the 36-year-old mother of two
was sh in her left eye the bullet
exiting the base of her neck how can you
justify this civil rights attorney Ben
Crump alleging the report confirms then
Deputy Shawn Grayson who responded to
massie's Springfield Illinois home July
6th about a possible Prowler fired
downward as she crouched to the ground
Massie seen on body camera video just
before the shooting picking up a pot of
boiling
water you better I swear I'll shoot you
your face okay sorry drop the
Grayson firing moments
later there was no Humanity he was fired
and pleaded not guilty to first-degree
murder charges records obtained by NBC
News show Grayson's worked for six
different law enforcement agencies since
2020 his last job in nearby Logan County
where records showed two complaints
filed against Grayson for inappropriate
behavior and abusing his power record
show Grayson rebutted the allegations
which are marked unfounded he left the
job in good standing an application for
that job shows Grayson admitted he'd
been intoxicated a lot in his life and
abused alcohol in the Army where he
served from 2014 to 2016 during that
time court records show he pleaded
guilty twice to driving Under the
Influence one Department's Personnel
records list his discharge from the Army
as misconduct serious offense in
response to NBC news's inquiries the
sangman county sheriff said Grayson's
application was reviewed and sent to a
merit commission which certified Grayson
For Hire he said a state training and
Standards Board reviewed the information
which included the DUI convictions
adding he was given a general honorable
discharge from the military the sheriff
said Grayson passed a drug test criminal
background check and psychological
evaluation and graduated from a 16-week
training academy before serving as a
sangan County Deputy it's your opinion
that he never should have been hired for
that job never should have never should
have been hired Grayson's attorney has
repeatedly declined to comment on the
shooting and his clients's employment
and criminal history Lester Maggie Vasa
thank you we'll take a break in 60
seconds as the Olympics get underway
we'll take a look at Team USA athletes
to watch when I'm joined by Mike too
here in Paris stay with
us back now from Paris the Olympics here
Team USA starts to watch at Paris games
now officially underway the US has sent
nearly 600 athletes to compete at these
games and earlier I had a chance to talk
with NBC Sports Mike too about some of
the big stars to
watch Redemption seems to be a common
theme for a lot of these athletes start
with some biles right the way it ended
three years ago in Tokyo doesn't match
up with her career which is seen by most
as the greatest gymnast of all time so
the opportunity to get back and be
performing almost at the level she was
at if not better in some cases is pretty
remarkable I think that would be the
number one Redemptive Story the US men's
gymnastics team has not had any of the
success that the women have but there
are a couple of different athletes and
Frederick Richard and Brody Malone who
have given the US real hope that they
could win a bronze medal in the team and
some of the individuals could win how
things looking in the pool well the
swimming story has one real overarching
rivalry USA versus Australia the
Australian team is not only really good
they love beating the Americans and
they've thrown a little Chum in the
water if you will and the Americans have
gone right back and when you go
individual in the pool Katie leeki story
is incredible and the headline to me is
the 800 meters if she wins that she
becomes the first individual to win the
same event in four different Olympic
games let's talk about if we can couple
of team sports basketball and soccer how
does the US fair so men's basketball is
interesting because you have some of the
big names that you know LeBron James
Kevin Durant Steph Curry who's never
played in Olympics they're all together
on a team with younger players like
Jason Tatum was on the NBA champion
Celtics I think you're seeing a Changing
of the Guard but the older guys if you
will they want to get one more gold
around their neck before they go out US
Women's team might be the most
successful women's team or team period
in Olympic history they're going for an
eighth straight gold medal and women's
soccer is a team that is in transition
right now but I think this US Women's
team has a new coach who they like they
won their first match they're a group
that might surprise the world and does
have a chance to end up in the gold
medal match our friend Mike too from NBC
Sports coming up we'll talk more about
Katie Lei become can't she become the
most decorated American woman in Olympic
history why she's racing against herself
here in Paris that's
Katie Ledecky swimming for history in Paris
next we welcome you back down from Paris
Team USA Superstar swimmer Katie Lei is
already a 10-time Olympic medalist so
one of the toughest competitors she's
out to beat here in Paris is herself she
spoke with Stephanie gos
we expect Katie Lei to win this race by
around 30 seconds the 1500 met freestyle
is a monster of a race 30 laps over 15
minutes of grueling effort I try to just
stay focused on what lap I'm on and stay
consistent with my rhythm and my stroke
Ka Lei somehow still keeps it fresh and
continues to wow us all there's a decent
chance Katie Lei could break the 1500
meter world record in Paris but the
competition is fierce she'd have to be
faster than herself in 2018 2015 2023 in
fact Katie Lei holds the top 19 fastest
times in history you're in competition
with yourself a lot yeah I mean I've
been in competition with myself for many
years this summer The 27-year-old is
swimming in her fourth Olympics the
winner of the 800 met free back in
London she was just 15 so you go to
London and you are the baby and now you
are the veteran what is the biggest
change in your swimming since then I
think the biggest change is just all the
experience that I have under my belt
remarkable experience a 21-time world
champion seven Olympic gold medals and
three
silver President Biden awarded her the
presidential medal of freedom this year
and with three more medals in Paris she
would become become the most decorated
us woman in Olympic history in any sport
are you surprised to find yourself in
that position I guess so I never thought
that I would even make one Olympics when
I first started swimming another gold
medal of the 800 and the world
record that humility is part of what
makes Lei so special combined with
natural talent and a fierce work ethic
is it really true you've never had a
beer yeah not even a sip no no wine no
beer for the Paris games she moved
across the country to train here at the
University of Florida are you kind of a
gator now I am I think I'm an honorary
Gator now doing laps alongside some of
the fastest male swimmers for Team USA
like Bobby Fink and Kieran Smith they
get nervous sometimes when I start
creeping up on them I mean nine times
out of 10 they'll beat me but I find
that 10% I can get up there in their
face and and you're Relentless I'm
Relentless Katie Lei will win her third
straight Olympic gold Lei says she hopes
to swim through the 2028 Olympics in La
if not longer I think that even beyond
my competitive career I'm always going
to find myself back in the pool and it's
just a place that I've loved since I was
6 years old starting to swim what
happens if you're out of the pool too
long uh I get a little antsy I start to
miss it and I find myself back at the
pool pretty quickly and when she's there
at least for now very few few people can
catch her Stephanie gos NBC News
Gainesville
Florida and up next for us could the
Paris Olympics come at a better time how
the games have brought us together
throughout history can we
[Music]
return and we're back now in Paris which
after tonight's spectacular opening
feels like a co-star in these Olympics
but after covering 11 Olympics over the
last 20 plus years one thing I've
learned is that history can be made
where you least
expected the places for these games are
The city of light on the world stage
decided years before we can ever know
who will compete or the environment
they'll compete in coming to you today
from the Deer Valley Ski Resort in Park
City Utah my first Olympic Salt Lake
City 2002 took place less than 6 months
after the 9911
attacks the unprecedented amount of
security became the story before
September 11th this balloon or any
airplane would not be allowed to get
within 3 month of that site that is
until the athletes wrote their own
chapters in the snow and ice much of it
etched in Gold here in France Paris
itself has stolen the show for now its
undeniable Charms have already made this
one of the most talked about Olympics in
recent memory maybe even a welcome tonic
for a world in turmoil Paris is a city
in which you are constantly surrounded
by history will now the old and the new
come together this is the pl still a
Concord a place of public executions
during the French Revolution now it's an
urban stage for the Olympic debut of the
sport of breaking along with several
other modern sports in 20 years I've
covered Olympics shadowed by conflict
shadowed by the threat of terrorism and
disease I've been required to have a
special app on my phone that monitors
some of my movements and my
health but when the games were over
that's not what we were talking about
once again it was the athletes my
favorite part of covering the Olympics
is the surprises we never really know
what's going to happen a favorite can
have a bad day an underdog can suddenly
come from behind at the Olympics hopes
and dreams can be made or lost and a
hundredth of a second it will be a dive
there is no room for distractions we'll
still love Paris when it's all over but
only when the athletes have left it all
on the field will the final history of
these games be fully
written and that is Nightly News for
this Friday the opening ceremony airs
here on NBC at 7:30 eastern time it is
going to be a spectacular night thank
you for watching everyone I'm Lester Hol
take care of yourself and each other
good
night thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC news app or follow us on social
media