all right tonight a lot of unanswered
questions about what the presidential
election will look like this year but
not just here in the United States in
Venezuela as well a place struggling
with a lot of social unrest under
current president maduro's regime for
more than a decade now and Venezuelans
are heading to the polls on Sunday to
make a critical Choice NBC's guad
Venegas explained it all in tonight's
breakdown a pivotal election in
Venezuela this weekend leaving Millions
there and around the world questioned
whether a free and fair election is even
possible president Nicolas Maduro
himself teasing at a rally that the
outcome could be dangerous if he is not
reelected neighboring Brazil's president
saying he's scared by maduro's remarks
while the US making it clear that we're
watching we're watching closely Maduro
mobilizing the military opening
checkpoints throughout the country in
the Roundup to Sunday soldiers parading
with ballot boxes and they have a
horrible record of fraudulent elections
but it wasn't always the case the
country once a thriving democracy Ugo
Chavez elected in a populous wave in
1999 then ruling with an iron fist
holding onto power until his death from
cancer in 2013 when mudo his handpicked
successor took over maduro's rule
fraught with skyrocketing inflation in a
mass Exodus with about a fifth of
Venezuela's population leaving according
to the UN but his grip over his
government remains they control all of
the institutions but in particular they
control the Electoral
tribunal uh and so the
rules have been defined by the
government in 2018 president Maduro
claiming reelection but the National
Assembly deed declaring the results
invalid leading to juang guo stepping up
and declaring himself the interim
president a move the US recognized for a
few years but wo ended up fleeing
Venezuela with a warrant out for his
arrest now maduro's opposition edmundo
Gonzalez urua a 74-year-old standin
candidate for the person widely believed
to be the bigger Challenger Maria Corina
Machado a politician known as
Venezuela's Iron Lady she's opposed
chabis and Maduro for decades wrapping
up support from thousands there's no no
question that she is the most important
political figure in Venezuela but a
government ban on her running for public
office upheld in January it's not
stopping the oppos vision from rallying
for a mass turnout and monitoring for
any election intimidation on Sunday and
as many more consider leaving the
country if things don't
change so obviously still kind of this
concern of whether not not this is going
to be a free and fair election with all
that you just laid out there guad but
what in fact is the opposition promising
here if they win and how might it impact
the United
States well yes man edmundo Gonzalez UA
is the candidate right but he already
said that if he wins Maria Corina
Machado can play any role she wants in
his government I mean essentially he is
there in place for her Maduro did not
expect the opposition to gain so much
support by allowing the opposition to
register with this candidate so uh
Marina Melo had promised to privatize a
lot of Industries in Venezuela
Venezuela's economy had been crippling
for years inflation in Venezuela uh is
insane so one of the things she's
promised is to priv privatize the oil
industry as well as the health
healthcare industry education and many
other Industries which would bring
foreign investment into Venezuela so it
would be a major change Jasmine since
the chavista party took over in
Venezuela we have not seen a change uh
in government so Ugo Chavez ruled and
then Nicolas Maduro has been in power so
we don't know what it would look like to
see Nicolas Maduro uh actually be
defeated and see how that change of
power would go but what they have
promised Mar Corina Machado is to try to
bring back the millions of Venezuela
that the Venezuelans that have fled uh
the country let's hear from some
Venezuelans that have fled and these
this is what they think they would do if
the opposition
wins I wouldn't even think about it I
would go back
without thinking about it I would return
to my
country Millions have fled again and a
lot of the people that have fled are
doctors attorneys people that are
working in other countries so the
opposition wants to attract a lot of
them back to Venezuela but again we'll
have to wait and see what happens with
the election if Maduro loses if he's
willing to accept the loss and we should
also add that some governments like the
president of Brazil also Colombia that
are allies of Nicolas Maduro and his
government are asking him to accept the
results of an election even if he loses
Yasmin we will be certainly watching and
tracking this incredibly important
election guad Venegas for us thank you
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media