when Russia invaded Ukraine in February
2022 Bogdan yadov a 66 kilogram European
Judo Champion was training for Paris
5:00 in the morning my best friend call
me and say War
started so was yaroslava mahu yes so the
world's number one ranked high jumper I
felt fear inside and I say goodbye to my
life with training facilities torn apart
by Russian bombs believe it or not there
was a nice gymnasium
here and constant Air Raid Sirens
interrupting almost every practice you
start attack we have bomb shelter in our
sport Hall suddenly the two athletes
faced an impossible Choice should they
go abroad where it's safer or remain in
Ukraine
bdan chose to stay he couldn't bear to
leave his wife and son sometimes it's
really hard to fight but I want to want
for my country and make our people a
little bit happy yaroslava made the
painful decision to go abroad training
across Western Europe she worries about
her parents and sister who live in
denpro a city that's often attacked by
Russia when I say goodbye I didn't know
when I'll see again but but my father
said you should go you should show their
old world what happened in our
country that's the world record record
despite the strain She's Gone From
Success to success and this month broke
a 37y old world record my jobs my
competition for my country for the
soldiers I fight for my country I'm
always proud to be
Ukrainian Bogdan and yaroslava both say
the war is motivating them to show the
world Ukraine is still standing strong
Richard Engel NBC News ke Ukraine thanks
for watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media