all right to tonight's original now with
in-depth reporting on a topic that we
have been watching and tonight it's the
battle Brewing over JD Vance's previous
comments appearing to criticize people
who don't have children in this country
online communities now galvanizing over
resurfaced comments from Vance calling
KLA Harris a quote childless cat lady
that he's now chalking up to
sarcasm also some Unearthed advances P
suggestion that parents should get more
votes Than childless People he's now
calling those 2021 comments a quote
thought experiment this whole
controversy it's showing how Affairs of
the family have become Central to
America's culture wars but also
highlighting issues that are really
important to a whole lot of Voters Child
Care Family Leave Reproductive Rights
one group trying to bridge that
divide a jaw-dropping moment in a debate
with many what would you do to make
child care more
affordable just to go back the general
got fired because he was is no good
there was a real movement to have a
question in the presidential debate
around child care and neither candidate
answered and that was hurtful this guy
hasn't fired anybody no one wants to
screw around with us nobody Biden
finally got a few words in on the topic
he did very virtually nothing to
childcare we should significantly
increase the child care tax credit but
it didn't impress Aaron Arenberg a
co-founder of chamber of mothers there
are a lot of Representatives and
Congress people who are not thinking
about these issues we want to give the
power back to moms Aaron alongside Raina
Boston and others are working to make
issues affecting moms front and center
in the upcoming election look up their
candidates are they even talking about
paid leave are they talking about
maternal Health are they talking about
the cost of child care through voter
registration drives and a nonpartisan
message chamber of mothers hopes to
reach millions of moms and engage them
as a Bonafide voting block in the
pandemic mothers put this country on
their backs and made it so that we did
not incur economic collapse that's power
but voting like a mother or on any issue
surrounding family often becomes
political in today's heated culture wars
I think it is you the women who have had
the most diabolical lies told to you
remember this controversy he
disrespected his wife and stay-at home
moms everywhere mothers Across America
took to Twitter proclaiming they like
being mothers and these comments from JD
Vance resurfacing after he was named
Trump's running mate we're effectively
run in this country via the Democrats
via VIA our corporate oligarchs by a
bunch of childless cat ladies a recent
Pew research poll shows a major Gap in
the way voters view government policy
around the family with 59% of trump
supporters saying Society is better off
making marriage and having children a
priority versus only 19% of Biden
supporters the chamber of mothers says
that's all just noise from do you
formula feed are you breastfeeding do
you work outside of the home or you a
full-time mom and we say that all of
that is just a false divide right now
there is no federally protected paid
family leave and according to the Center
for American progress over half of
Americans live in a child care desert
meaning very few options often
unaffordable and that's just not how we
want to run our country this group of
moms came together after Paid Family
Leave was cut from President Biden's
build back better legislation in 2021
and now 3 years later remain committed
not only to the issues but the power of
being a mom we're United in that Vision
we activate moms to create change around
that and we're here to stay so the
Chamber of mothers they tell me they're
excited to see KLA Harris platform
issues like pay Family Leave a
affordable child care and better uh
maternal health care they're also saying
they're hoping for a Unity where
Democrats and Republicans can agree
specifically on these issues thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media