can't forget what a way for Team USA to
win its first gold medal in Paris Hunter
Armstrong Jack Alexi Chris Giuliano and
Caleb dressle dominating the 4X 100
meter freestyle relay the Americans get
it done again it was just surreal um you
know just trying to take in every moment
of it dressle anchored the race his
eighth gold medal might have been his
sweetest it was the first witnessed by
his six-month-old son August it was
really special making the team in front
of him and then winning gold in front of
him so I can take that me the rest of my
life it was a strong showing in the pool
for the women of Team USA too picking up
silver in the same event I think
everyone's happy with how we swim and
it's just going to keep getting better
and Katie Lei won her first medal of
these Olympics a bronze in the 400 meter
freestyle vested today by her Australian
rival Arian titmas just a little
disappointed that I couldn't bring my
best today but um a Metal's a metal
can't be disappointed with that
unfortunately the swimmers were aren't
the only ones getting wet today in Paris
downpours drenched beach volleyball
athletes and Spectators alike
skateboarding was postponed but the
women's cycling time trial was not there
were a lot of crashes gracious amazingly
us cyclist Chloe D went down she goes
down got back on her bike and still won
bronze she's going to get the bronze
medal I just did everything I could to
get to the finish line today and um I'm
really grateful
um God's plan and
um just thankful that I'm here the heavy
rainfall could also cause sewage to
overflow into the sen affecting water
quality organizers say Sunday's practice
session for triathletes and distance
swimmers may be cancelled with Tuesday's
competition in Jeopardy but hopefully we
get a swim bike and run because I don't
swim this much to just run and bike
Halfway Around the World the water and
mother nature were far more Cooperative
surfing got underway in Tahiti 12 time
zones and 10,000 mi from Paris bright
blue skies and perfect waves the metal
count already off to a good start for
Team USA Cassidy cook and Sarah Bacon
nabbed the first of the
games winning silver in synchronized
diving to be the first medal for Team
USA in the first medal ceremony of this
Olympic Games it's just it's amazing
it's feels insane and Stephanie we saw
our first gymnastics action today as
well yeah we did last year the men
qualified in fifth place in the team
competition for the final they haven't
won a medal since 2008 and the women
they start tomorrow they have their own
qualifier a lot of excitement so early
in these games all right Stephanie
thanks very much thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media