well before we talk about the individual
races here what's it like for you to
come back you know I think last night
during Opening Ceremonies you know just
being a part of Opening Ceremonies for
me I had a hair sticking straight up on
my arms like I had just the emotions and
the feelings of being back at an Olympic
games let's talk about um some of your
former teammates competing who are you
watching you know obviously Katie Lei is
is you know she's like my little sister
I've known her forever and and um you
know go back to that old photo of her
and I when she was you know a little
10-year-old or how old she was
um you know she's really made a name for
herself and really become a dominant
name in the sport last time we talked it
was you know we were talking about
mental the mental approach to this game
as you watch these athletes right now
how are they how do they seem to you you
know for me a lot of them have have
taken that part of it in control for
themselves right I think you know we've
had a lot of a lot of additions to you
know the mental health space from the
usoc so I think you know just from
talking to the swimmers I think it's
it's really cool and really powerful
that they're taking that on themselves
and taking care of the mental and the
physical health right so they can be the
best version of themselves one of the
things I've got to kick out of is the
Rivalry between USA and Australia what's
that all about when we are in the pool
yes of course we're competitors right we
want nothing more than to beat the
person next to us who whoever it might
be but when we're out of the pool we're
friends saying that I hope Team USA
Rings those cow bells as loud as they
can possibly ring them all meat long who
are the people we should be watching as
we look toward the future uh you know I
think Kate Douglas this week has a great
chance in the two breast um Jack Alexi
Hunter Armstrong Hunter back Hunter
freestylers it's kind of really anyone's
ball game and I think that's that's the
greatest thing about this sport I think
now is you really see the younger
generation that's stepping up and
doesn't it doesn't matter if they're
racing ktie Lei it doesn't matter if
they're racing Caleb dressel they think
they can beat him and that's the kind of
attitude and the mentality we need to
have when we're going up and racing the
best in the world thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media