there's something different about Simone
biles now not the gymnastics you should
not be able to do that as a human being
her vaults still soore as jaw-droppingly
high absolutely incredible her floor
routines as electric as ever ladies and
gentlemen that's how it's done now the
shift is in her mindset there's this joy
that I haven't seen in a long time at 27
she is more confident more centered more
herself
I feel like the new me I'm a little bit
older more mature so just being
unapologetically me she has as they say
done the work therapy every Thursday has
become as critical as her reps in the
gym before I was kind of like pushing
down my trauma and now I've learned to
speak on it and kind of release that so
that's really helped me and that's why
I'm doing what I'm doing today do you
feel stronger now than you have before I
think so I think we used to think of
therapy as a weakness and now I think of
as a strength and if there's somebody
that can help me deal with what I'm
going through then that's what I need to
do it is the women's team finnal from
Tokyo you may have been watching that
night in July 2021 tens of millions were
as Simone sprinted toward the Vault and
then got lost in the air wow and that
was not what was planned a dreaded and
scary phenomenon gymnasts call the
twisties never in my life have I seen
her do that never worried about safety
she pulled out of the competition I'm
sorry I love you guys watching from the
sidelines as her shocked teammates
managed to pull it together and win
silver but it was not the triumphant
Olympics any of them had dreamed of I'm
going home in one piece which I was a
little bit nervous about um so I'm not
mad back at home Simone focused on her
mental health she also got married
became an aunt and then slowly started
to think about a comeback how long did
you have to mull it over it took a while
um because I was watching gymnastics on
TV but then you know every time somebody
Twisted I was like oh my gosh one day I
just woke up and I was like okay let's
try this
again those signature skills came right
back Simone
F vaulting Simone to her third Olympics
and a chance at what she says is
Redemption how do you want yourself to
be remembered as long as I was having
fun and doing what I love then that's
all that you can do because I don't want
to look back 50 years from now and be
like wow she was good but she was so
miserable and I think a couple times I
might have thought that but now I'm just
like wow look at her go she's loving
what she's doing with who she's doing it
with so really just embracing that
moment every time Simone looks in the
mirror she sees this tattoo Amaya Angelo
quote on her collar bone and Still I
Rise and so she does hodby NBC news
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

