okay we're here in Deal we're supposed
to swim tomorrow morning probably solid
foods and then more of like our bags and
our these were the moments of
anticipation getting it all ready and
props to
go 16-year-old Maya marriage jumping
into the English Channel in Pitch Black
at 3:30 a.m. aiming to become one of the
youngest swimmers to make it across to
France all Maya her dad on a boat
cheering her on it's pretty
nerve-wracking and I'm really thinking
I'm either the most supportive parent in
the world or the the dumbest parent in
the world for allowing my child to do
things like this a year ago she'd done a
big swim in Hawaii oh
my but the water in the English Channel
is colder just 61Â° I saw two more
jellies and there were jellyfish but she
just kept swimming Open Water Swimming
is 20% physical and 80% mental you got
this she wasn't just doing it for fun
with every ultramarathon swim she raises
money for cancer research through the
organization swim across America it's
something that everyone has dealt with
in some way cancer hurts everybody on
her swim cap she writes the names of
people in her own life who've been
touched by cancer Maya's had her own
health battle this past year a benign
tumor that ruptured just after
qualifying to swim the English Channel
she was hospitalized in Ohio the second
I got out of the hospital I was like I
still want to do this and my parents
were like we can try as she approached
the coast of France she had to hit a
current just right we are this close I
had been swimming for 11 hours at this
point and they were like you have to
Sprint just went fast yeah as fast as I
could I don't know if she quite realizes
how close she is right now for the last
100 yards her dad was right next to her
hey Maya you got this she reached the
rocky
Shore yeah we pulled her on the boat and
I immediately hugged her he can breathe
a sigh of relief and it's know okay we
got it done at 16 she's now completed
three of the world's toughest Open Water
swims known as the Triple Crown seeing
her finally accomplish it and getting it
done is is really brings so much joy and
happiness did you cry oh yeah absolutely
just a little
bit I think that it's so important to
find something that you're passionate
about in life you can use that to help
other people and to inspire their people
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

