no trainer would start you without a
warmup right so let's get into it warm
it up warm it up if you've ever worked
out with a personal trainer like Bobby
Westside you've probably had a workout
tailored to your needs what I would see
is a little bit of lack of ankle
reflection here with a little extra
motivation sprinkled in very good but
there's a new competitor making its way
into gyms personal workout plans made
using chat GPT or other AI platforms
here's how it works you log on to chat
gp.com or download the mobile app and
then type in what type of workout you
want including the areas you'd like to
focus on I wanted a similar routine to
the one I did with Bobby give me a
10-minute workout focused on legs and
abs then chat GPT generated a plan for
me to try perform a regular squat then
jump that's what it said so here's the
bicycle crunches I think it's this right
yeah and as you can see there was a bit
more guessing in my solo workout
compared to the personal instruction
with Bobby can you make this
workout harder for me Jonah blat a
physiotherapist in Ontario Canada has
been experimenting with AI workouts for
seven months it really is hit and miss
in terms of what you get out of it from
a workout perspective some exercises
make a lot of sense and were a really
great fit others left me questioning why
they would choose that exercise bad says
he does a lot of his workouts at home
but anyone can custom their workout by
letting chat GPT know where they are
what equipment they have available and
what areas they'd like to Target Dr GAC
Chona is a sports surgeon and works with
patients who use AI workouts do you
think there's any other pieces of advice
for people who are deciding to use these
AI machines for their workouts what you
can get from these is a lot of useful
information and a lot of accurate
information but what you can't
necessarily expect is full
comprehensiveness and 100 % accac scene
one study found that only about 41% of
AI generated workouts were comprehensive
meaning they included all six components
of exercise and if you decide to use an
AI workout one last important piece of
advice I would really focus on what
you're telling the AI when you prompt it
so that should be a very very very long
prompt answering the questions that a
trainer would already ask you which is
what injuries do you have what's your
experience in the gym is there anything
that you're not comfortable doing you
need to make sure that you're going
about it safely Maya Eagan NBC news
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

