it's official Simone biles is
back today leading the American women to
a first place finishing qualifiers for
the team event before a crowd that
included Tom Cruz Lady Gaga and Ariana
Grande biles looking confident and solid
despite tweaking her left calf leaving
the floor to have it wrapped she
continued on though she appeared to limp
at times her coach later sa biles first
felt pain there a couple of weeks ago
adding she was never in danger of
dropping out and was already feeling
better by her last
event wow biles also securing a spot in
the all-around final she'll be joined by
teammate Sunni Lee who won the event in
Tokyo there we go in the pool a
thrilling one-w victory for Team USA in
the 100 meter butterfly Tory husk
besting teammate Gretchen Walsh by Just
4 hundredths of a second that's hosco
gets in there when you touched the wall
and you realized you guys were one and
two what did you think it was crazy I
mean I've been like dreaming of this
moment for a long time now so like to be
up there and to win that race and then
to do it with gret for Team USA like it
was just it's unbelievable the Americans
celebrating together I think like it's a
dream come true to even be on that
Podium and in the 400 IM you hear that
that's for French swimmer Leon Marshon
for the French he's their face at these
Olympics Mara Lightning Fast taking gold
while American Carson Foster won bronze
how do you feel you're a you're a Medal
winner at the Olympics man it's not I
don't think it's definitely not going to
hit today or tomorrow um but just
soaking in the environment I mean I I've
dreamed about this my whole life but
there was no swimming in the send today
triathlon training canceled because of
poor water quality organizers say
they're still confident it will be safe
enough for competition this week at
plasta Concord the first medals in
skateboarding the podium all teenagers
the gold medalist from Japan just 14
years
old in tennis Rafael Nadal got a
standing ovation as he entered the court
while Coco goof made her Olympic debut
so did team USA's men's basketball team
LeBron James Steph Curry and Kevin
Durant tipping off against Serbia with a
decisive 110 to 85 four win and in
mountain biking the best ever finish for
Team USA thanks to Utah's Haley baton
who took silver Haley baton makes
history for Team USA the whole Cy
Community made this possible today so
it's crazy Thomas here a lot of emotions
playing after this place uh let's talk
about women's soccer us women just
wrapped up a match yeah they are
remember Lester this team is young but
they're hungry and they're playing great
soccer they just beat Germany 4 to1 to
they're 2-0 likely headed to the next
round all right Tom yams thank you
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

