tonight the nation's largest active
Wildfire is quickly growing and showing
no sign of slowing down the park fire
now more than 350,000 Acres quickly
becoming one of the largest in
California
history nearly 4,000 firefighters
battling the Flames swirling into fire
tornadoes chewing unchecked through
dozens of homes in Northern California
what started as a small brush fire is
now a sprawling Behemoth burning through
thousands of Acres every hour Lassen
National Park closed posting this Eerie
photo of Smoke Filled skies and
evacuating campers new satellite images
capture the fire's exponential growth
spawning vast expanding clouds of smoke
the park is among nearly 90 active fires
consuming the West plummeting air
quality sending plumes of smoke seen as
far east as New Hampshire the evacuation
Zone covering the town of paradise
devastated by the campfire 6 years ago
the deadliest and most destructive
wildfire in California history that took
the home of volunteer firefighter Craig
Keel moved up here cuz we just love live
in the woods now hindsight guess second
guess that but I still will I'll do it
again Lance and Patricia Conlin are one
of thousands of families forced to flee
we were both survivors of the uh
campfire it took us 6 hours to get out
so we didn't want to experience that
again it wears on our community there is
so much trauma survivors from a terrible
leg Legacy of fire riding yet another
one out we by the grace of God uh
survived both incidents uh and you know
we'll survive this one and thankfully
the weather here is cooperating allowing
firefighters to get some level of
containment on this fire now up to 12%
but with how big this fire is and how
much fuel there is left to burn the
nation's largest fire is expected to get
even larger Lester thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

