Boston is notorious for bumper-to-bumper
traffic leaving Beantown drivers Fed Up
Boston has the fourth worst traffic in
the country drivers here can spend on
average nearly 90 hours a year almost 4
days stuck behind the wheel the national
average is more than 50 hours nobody
likes being stuck in traffic so the city
of Boston is teaming up with Google to
try to make sure their
drivers hit more green lights it's
called project greenl which in part uses
artificial intelligence to monitor
traffic patterns and then come up with
solutions to improve traffic
flow Matos veret is a product manager
with Google you know that great feeling
when you hit two or three green lights
in a row that's what we're trying to
create with green light we went to one
of the intersections project green light
analyzed what is AI actually doing to
these lights we're basically shifting a
couple seconds from one of the lights to
the other one right and this prevents
traffic from backing up it may not seem
like much but a few seconds can mean the
difference between getting a red
light or getting green lights all the
way we're trying to create so-called
green waves Yasha Franklin Hajj is
Boston's chief of streets he showed us
the city's traffic control room yeah so
this is the traffic Management Center
here Engineers monitor the city's roads
project Greenlight makes suggest sus to
improve traffic flow and the engineers
then can Implement those changes Yasha
says this will be a game changer we
think green project green light can be
an important part of reducing delay in
Boston but it's not just here in Boston
project greenl is already live in
Seattle and in 12 other cities around
the world improving efficiency and
cutting down time at stop lights this
saves time for drivers and has an added
benefit for air quality we see the
potential for a reduction of up to 30%
of the number of stops and 10% in
emissions at affected
intersections hoping to put the project
in the fast lane making a positive
impact on the environment and frustrated
drivers Steven Romo NBC News Boston
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

