when parents worry about a senseless
attack this is what they fear around
noon today in Southport in northern
England near Liverpool an as salent
walked into a dance and yoga studio and
began stabbing children it was during a
soldout Taylor Swift themed class for 6
to 11year olds Witnesses saw bloody
children being taken out one describing
it like a horror movie two children have
died as a result of the injuries
sustained in this morning's knife
attack nine other children have been
injured and six of them are in a
critical condition the suspect was only
identified by police as a 17-year-old
male from a nearby town I'm still
shaking I'm still can't just I can't
think what is happening because I think
it's shocking everyone no motive was
given it's not being investigated as
terrorism no other suspects are being
sought our thoughts and condolences
with the victims their families their
friends and The Wider community and it's
almost impossible to imagine the grief
that they're going through and the
trauma that they're going through King
Charles tonight said in a statement my
wife and I have been profoundly shocked
to hear of the utterly horrific incident
ler thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media

