tonight Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu at the soccer field where 12
children were killed in a rocket blast
Saturday Israel and the US say the
strike was carried out by Iranian backed
Hezbollah from Lebanon which denies
responsibility Israel says it's the
worst assault on its civilians since the
Hamas terror attack of October
7th our response will come and it will
be severe Netanyahu says
that's raising fears of an allout War
while in the Mountain Village of majal
Shams in the Israeli controlled Golan
Heights anguish over so many young lives
lost this was a normal Saturday night it
was a little after 6 pm. kids playing on
this soccer field when the sirens
started blaring and just seconds later
that rocket Came Crashing Down right
here bringing death and destruction to
this community among the dead
13-year-old John Ibrahim we met his
cousin Nia all of my family is feeling
bad and
crying but there's also anger this crowd
calling Netanyahu a killer saying he
should have done more to keep their
children safe and the White House saying
tonight predictions of allout war
between Israel and Hezbollah are quote
exaggerated Lester thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

