a 99 days Sprint to November
5th prominent Democratic Governors and
potential VP picks Pennsylvania's Josh
Shapiro and Michigan's Gretchen Whitmer
on the trail for kamla Harris Let's wake
up in November and say the words Madam
president their messages provide a
window into the running mate search with
about 10 days left for the vice
president to make her decision KLA
Harris's name is going to be on that
bout and I for one I'm going to be
pushing that button for kamla Harris I
know you will too her team calling for a
week of action on the Supreme Court and
abortion rights as Iowa's restriction on
abortion after about 6 weeks goes into
effect today Harris on social media tied
the law to former president Trump which
makes Iowa the 22nd state in our country
to have a trump abortion ban in
Minnesota Saturday former president
Trump called out Harris on immigration I
will terminate every single open border
policy of the Biden Harris
Administration and we will seal the
border both Harris and President Biden
say dramatic change is needed at the
Supreme Court we need these reforms to
restore trust in the courts the
president calling for a constitutional
amendment to hold presidents accountable
for crimes committed in office after Mr
Trump's win on immunity term limits to
cap justices at 18 years on the court a
binding code of ethics
Supreme Court's current ethics code is
weak and even more frightening voluntary
getting necessary Congressional approval
would be hard President Biden and his
leftist allies don't like the current
composition of the court so they want to
shred the Constitution to change
it and meanwhile Kelly there are some
new developments into the investigation
into the assassination attempt against
former president Trump that's right
Congress announced a new bipartisan task
force to investigate the assassination
attempt today the FBI says it has still
not determined motive but has evidence
of complex Planning by the gunman the
bureau has done more than 450 interviews
and says former president Trump agreed
to participate in what they call a
victim interview Lester thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

