Henry your little girl is an Olympian
what is that like wow so exciting man
nobody could ever take that away from
her Henry Rivera is the father of Hesley
Rivera nobody's had a better time
tonight in the stands than her parents
at 16 the youngest member of the USA
women's gymnastics team this viral video
of her dad barely able to look during
her routine at the World Championships
reminding the pressure of these moments
can be a shared experience I usually get
out of this Arena and just Pace myself
praying that was just nerves you know
it's just my little daughter's there and
whether your daughter is 16 or 27 like
say Simone
biles how stressful is it watching her
and does it get easier over time it does
not not for me nights like last night
reinforcing that for Ronnie and Nelly
biles after Simone briefly appeared to
be in pain during the qualifying
sessions I said what is she doing she
hurt please don't let her be hurt they
are kids when they start chasing this
dream to Fly Above the Rest but Simone
biles the senior member of the USA team
still takes Assurance from Mom and Dad's
presence just like she always has does
Simone feel better having you guys in
the stands and KN you're right there she
definitely does she knows where we're
sitting and that's the main thing for
her and they plan to be right there on
Tuesday when Simone writes her comeback
story in
Paris you have so many reasons to be
proud of Simone do you think back to
those days when you were watching her as
a kid I never thought that this would be
what I would be experiencing and not
only have we end up with one Olympics
this is her third so this is
incredible and regarding Simone biles
and her leg her mom tells me she is fine
and that the doctor told them there was
really nothing for them to worry about
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

