in Battleground Georgia black men voters
will be critical in the race to the
White House I like RFK Justin Samuels
and Dorian Griffin are both 32-year-old
small business owners Samuels is an
independent how has vice president
Harris being the top of the ticket
impacted the way that you see this
election her being the top of the ticket
really made me think about creating a
another historic moment not just for the
country but for also the black community
as a whole too I think there's a lot
that she has to prove there are a a lot
of men in this country who need to be
okay with a a woman leading the country
Griffin is a republican he says he's
still voting for Trump and tell me what
appeals to you about Trump uh his
business Acumen When Donald Trump was
President uh we were all doing a lot
better financially he's always been a
business icon so why wouldn't we want
that business icon to be president and
he had this to say about Harris I think
she hasn't done anything worth
mentioning what would you have wanted to
see vice president Harris accomplish
that she has not I would have liked her
to kind of bring a calm to the border
the Border crisis has gotten out of hand
in 2020 President Biden nearly flipped
Georgia Blue winning just under 12,000
votes Democrat darus Rollins says he's
excited for Harris I've never seen
enthusiasm uh like this this fast and
you had concerns about vice president
har 's background as a prosecutor what
got you over them when I started doing
the research when you see those type of
things that aren often talked about that
resonates with me and now all three men
are waiting for November's election
results yamisha sendor NBC News
Atlanta thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media