tonight outrage across Venezuela after
president Nicolas mudo claims victory in
his third straight
election the national electoral Council
announcing maluto secured 51% of the
vote compared to opposition candidate
edmundo Gonzalez with
44% but Gonzalez and the opposition also
claiming Victory saying they received
70% of the vote malo's government so far
refusing to release the detailed
official results needed to back up its
claim of victory in a statement released
Monday mudo claiming someone hacked the
national electoral council's data
transmission
system reporter Anna van is in karakas
where protesters have started taking to
the streets where we're looking at it's
the people without anyone telling them
to get to the streets they are now on
the streets at least right now we don't
know if that uh it's going to get worse
going to get bigger but so far the
people are just showing that there is no
celebration several countries including
the US also casting doubt on the
election outcome and urging officials to
release a detailed tabulation of votes
we have serious concerns that the result
announced does not reflect the will or
the votes of the Venezuelan people
according to the UN more than 7 million
people have left Venezuela since malur
took office about 20% of the country's
population many saying now they won't go
[Music]
home mudo first took power in 2013
following the death of popular socialist
leader Ugo Chavez Venezuela suffered
economic catastrophe under Malo rule
including hyperinflation he's also
received harsh criticism for his
increasingly autocratic rule facing
accusations of taking political
prisoners and not allowing free
election Venezuela's opposition and the
US also saying his last election in 2018
was IL legitimate
for now Venezuela heading into a period
of profound uncertainty as calls for the
government to release the full results
grow louder and unrest among its
citizens grows
larger and David Nora joins us now from
Los Angeles David you mentioned at the
end of your piece that the United States
does not recognize maduro's rule as
legitimate and that dates back to the
Trump Administration talk to us about
why the US is watching this election so
closely well Allison for one thing
there's the issue of migration of the 7
plus million people who have left
Venezuela in the last few years about
10% of them some a little more than
700,000 people have crossed the southern
border into the us but in general the US
is a major player in this story the
economic crisis that produced that
migration crisis uh was made worse by us
sanctions on Venezuela and if mudo
serves another six-year term in power
those sanctions and the economic crisis
and the migration crisis are likely to
intensify the US has been trying for
years in various different ways to get
mudo out of power he's actually under
indictment in the US he's wanted for
drug trafficking and Corruption by uh US
Federal authorities and he's not likely
to leave office peacefully unless he can
get some kind of guarantee that he's not
going to wind up in an American prison
Alison interesting stuff David Nora
thank you we appreciate it thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media