amid the Controlled Chaos of an Olympic
water polo workout you'll find Maddie
musclean cool comb and clutch I just
love it I mean I love playing I just
show up every day just like thankful
that I get to play this sport the
26-year-old a crucial part of the USA
Women's team that's going for a record
fourth gold medal in Paris she's got a a
set of
values that she knows and that she lives
by and they're not
just words written on a piece of paper
or words you see on a wall or words you
might type in an
email she's one of the very few people
who lives her values literally every day
values tested more than any match this
past fall when Maddie and her husband
Pat got a phone call following a CT scan
for Pat's nagging cough they let us know
it was cancer it's a very rare um
aggressive cancer uh only
like 200 people a year get it doctors
called it nut carcinoma sharing it
spread from Pat's lungs to his
bones he just swam across the English
Channel for his 30th birthday now the
couple that bonded over a shared faith
and water polo were told the cancer was
stage four when we first found out I
didn't know if I wanted to come back and
play just I obviously like he's my
priority what we're doing you know
living your life and have a challenge
like this like water P seems really
small and obviously it's a very scary
diagnosis you know when someone tells
you that you have cancer and you know
talk about numbers and statistics and
we've never asked for them and we don't
want to know them because um everyone
has a you know special story and God has
a plan for what he wants for us um and
we just have to trust and believe in
that the two decided to move their
wedding up that
week you know your you know in
engaged both of you know this is who I
want to spend the rest of my life with
and now you're faced kind of with
this challenge that some people never
even have to undertake how did you turn
to each other lean on each other during
that
time I mean I think we're lucky that we
grew up playing sports I think this is
kind of like what ties into like what
makes this journey really special right
now I mean he was an athlete I'm an
athlete and we've been at high levels to
be able to like time manage make plans
have that competitive mindset like the
whole mindset perspective for me is like
what makes this journey a little bit
easier you come up with a strategy and
you execute then tackled treatment with
Olympic dedication matd supporting path
through intense chemo before heading to
team
workouts it's heartbreaking but um if
you know them they're incredibly strong
human beings they're incredibly strong
in their faith they're incredibly both
incredibly strong in love so I think
their story their story is amazing
they're these humans that have been
taken like they took on this huge thing
and they've done it with Grace and it's
been amazing to watch them you're there
in a grueling practice you know your
body is hurting and you think of Pat
yeah and I tell myself I can do it if he
can do it dreams of going to Paris
fueling them both you think about that
whenever you're getting treatment
whenever you're having a rough day
mhm
yeah now almost a year later they're at
the Olympics and Pat's treatments are
finally offering hope and to know that
you have a gold medalist who has your
back no matter what it's pretty special
tough to beat tough to beat uh I'm
certainly
the I feel luckiest man alive
so yeah two fighters inspiring each
other every step of the way Morgan chesy
NBC News Long Beach
California nightly films is sponsored by
fizer thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media

