all right let's bring in NBC News
campaign ined Nami iguan Wu good morning
to you and let's start with Governor Roy
Cooper of North Carolina reportedly
backing out of consideration to be
running mate to Harris what do we know
about that decision and why he announced
it yeah you know that's a decision that
we heard last night from the governor
who was considered to be one of the
Front Runners in the race 4vp you know
we did a count in NBC News analysis of
the vice president contenders that have
been with him the most and he actually
was at the top of that list they do have
a pretty good relationship but Cooper
himself saying in a statement that now
is simply not the right time for him to
leave North Carolina and be on the
national ticket that's for the reason
why there are a couple concerns one
we've heard that there is a quirk in the
North Carolina state law that means that
if he left uh Lieutenant Governor Mark
Robinson may be able to rise to uh that
top spot and there were some concerns
there about him potentially taking over
in Cooper's absence uh there are other
reports that say Cooper just wasn't all
that interested because of a possible
future Senate run um but one thing that
is clear is that Cooper himself says he
will continue to advocate for her is do
what he can to get her elected and we
saw evidence of that at least last night
he did join a white dudes for her is
zoom call that had a very high number of
high-profile surrogates and celebrities
and was able to raise according to
organizers more than $3 million so he
still is using his name power to help uh
the Harris campaign and that was
actually the name of the call white
dudes for Harris yeah that's that's not
a mistake
it's not it's not just Cooper we also
know that Michigan's Governor Gran
Whitmer also telling Joe that she's just
not being considered she's not in the
vetting process right now we know she's
also taken part in that rally with
Pennsylvania's Governor Josh Shapiro
yesterday also supporting Harris of
course Pennsylvania helped push Biden
over the top in 2020 so is Governor
Shapiro is he now sort of considered the
front runner in the vep
stakes well well certainly he is
definitely considered among the leading
Front Runners right now like you
mentioned Pennsylvania is a top
Battleground one that is crucial for the
path to victory for the Harris campaign
and it doesn't hurt that he is a very
popular governor in that Battleground
State you know that he uh was with uh
Whitmer over the weekend and he turned
out about a thousand people to a
campaign rally for Harris many of whom
told our reporters there that they were
intrigued by the idea of him possibly
serving alongside Harris so he's up
there but we do know there are some
other names that are still in active
consideration uh there's Mark Kelly in
Arizona who's still considered a pretty
top prospect and we also know that there
are newer faces that we that we now know
are in the vetting process whether
that's Tim walon Minnesota even Governor
JB priter Illinois so I've talked to
some campaign officials that says until
that August 7th deadline you know uh
names are still being considered uh and
that you know we may not know until
until a couple days before wow I can't
imagine waiting for that call and also
how important Pennsylvania actually is
in this whole process but not just
Pennsylvania I want to talk about
Kentucky I've been a little surprised
that Governor Andy Basher hasn't had
more attention in the vep stakes of
course he's been mentioned a lot but now
we have this this new reporting about
the he being scrutinized for his
abortion record in the state of course
that state was uh carried by Donald
Trump by more than 20 points back in
2020 so walk us through these criticisms
though of
Basher yeah you know Governor Andy
Basher has has emerged at least as
another vice presidential Contender
largely due to the fact that he is in a
red state that Donald Trump picked up by
20 points but is popular and has been
elected twice now by larger margins in
each race uh you know you you see the
benefit of having someone like bisher
over the weekend the campaign had him go
out to foresight County Georgia which is
a pretty Republican conservative leaning
predominantly white area uh and he when
was able to turn out hundreds of Voters
and speak to them an advocate on behalf
of the campaign but as you did mentioned
there were some reports that there were
those in his state that felt he didn't
do enough as Governor to fight some
State restrictions on abortion he uh his
running mate considers as someone who's
a Democrat but describes herself as a
pro-life Democrat so there were some
concerns over that and just some
concerns that even in his own
re-election campaign uh he was fickle
with how much he wanted to lean into the
anti the pro-abortion messaging um I
actually asked Cooper about some of
these concerns when he was in fory
County here in Georgia and take a listen
to how he defended himself against uh
this
attack well I'm the first Democrat in
Kentucky that has ever run an abortion
ad during an election I've vetoed five
separate anti-choice bills I've stood up
every single time knowing that it would
be one of the number one attacks on me I
think I've have been as strong as
anybody out there on Choice it's a lot
harder uh in Kentucky to do it and I've
still stood up and done it every
time so that's how you hear the governor
himself defend his record on abortion
but you know this is a campaign of
Reproductive Rights is going to play a
huge issue it's one that vice president
Harris has long been very vocal about
and is considered a champion on the
issue so those concerns from abortion
advocates in estate could certainly uh
play a part in in deciding how much How
likely he is to become that running mate
and just uh more than a week now we'll
see how this all plays into that VP Pick
N uanu thanks so much thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

