earlier this afternoon the Senate
overwhelmingly passed Landmark
legislation aimed at keeping kids safer
online the final vote 91 y to three Nays
and it comes six months after an apology
on Capitol Hill from meta CEO Mark
Zuckerberg to parents who say their kids
were harmed
online sorry for everything that you
have all gone through it's terrible no
one should have to go through the things
that your families have have suffered
that exchange was during an emotional
Senate hearing with several other big
Tech CEOs about this legislation NBC
News Congressional correspondent Julie
cirin joins us now from Capitol Hill and
has been tracking this so Julie we
talked about this months ago the measure
is made up of two bills here the
children and teens online privacy
protection act and the kids online
safety act it has all been characterized
as some of the most significant
Congressional uh developments to happen
in decades to regulate social media
action so tell us more about this and
its
significance yes thanl since 1998 that
is the last time that Congress addressed
any kind of legislation when it comes to
regulating online platforms of course
back then we didn't have social media
companies but any platforms that could
affect the kids even when I was growing
up when you were growing up I'm sure too
we talked about the importance of cyber
bullying of avoiding that only now in
2024 kids can't get off their phones
right they are everywhere especially
when I talked to one mom for example
whose son took his life during covid
because he was Cyber Bullied so
extensively so the focus of this
legislation really first of all it's
bipartisan and second of all it would
actually uh give hold some
accountability to these social media
platforms it would enforce algorithms
that they said have been harming kids
harmful content that you could be seeing
it doesn't control the content but it
does hold the social media companies
accountable and not pushing harmful
content to kids especially if they are
under the age of 18 it has parental
controls as well that are enforced
through these apps and again very
importantly uh parents will be able to
sue these social media companies to
actually hold them accountable to be
able to uh Fight Fire with Fire
essentially here and one of the big
reasons it took so long to get to this
point zlay is because of course the tech
companies have extremely powerful
lobbies that have been trying to hold
Senators uh keep them from passing
something like this thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media