Israel's military says it has launched a
targeted strike against a Hezbollah
commander in lebanon's capital city of
Beirut the military says he is
responsible for the attack that killed
12 children playing soccer in the
Israeli occupied Golan Heights on
Saturday NBC News International
correspondent rap Sanchez is in Tel Aviv
and joins us now so Raph what else do we
know about this strike so
far so zley this strike took place a
couple of hours ago in the southern
suburbs of Beirut that is a Hezbollah
stronghold the Israeli military has said
publicly that they were targeting the
Hezbollah Commander responsible for that
rocket attack in the Golan Heights on
Saturday which killed 12 children as
they were playing soccer in just the
last couple of minutes we have learned
the identity of the Hezbollah Commander
that Israel was targeting an Israeli
official tells NBC news that his name is
fuad shuker he's better known by his
nickname Haj Mosa
he is according to the US government a
senior advisor to hezbollah's supreme
leader Hassan Nala he is a member of the
militant group's military Council and
importantly Zin clay the US government
alleges that he played a central role in
the 1983 bombing of the Marine Barracks
in Beirut which killed
241 US service Personnel at this point
according to this Israeli official it is
not clear whether or not this strike
killed Haj Mosen according to Lebanese
State media at least one person was
killed in this attack a number of people
were wounded we can see from video of
the scene that a building collapsed as a
result of this attack this strike taking
place in the southern suburbs known as
dya this is absolute Hezbollah
stronghold territory and for Hezbollah
any attack on the capital of Beirut is a
red line so we are now waiting to see
what hezbollah's response is going to
look like it's possible we will see more
rocket fire in the coming hours I'll
just close zlay by saying the Israeli
military is not telling Israeli
civilians take any additional
precautions at this point which is a
possible indication that they do not
think Hezbollah will respond in a major
way Z clay ra to your point of a red
line there are concerns about further
escalation between the two sides here
specifically from the US state
department How likely is it that we see
some kind of retaliation from Hezbollah
even
Iran I I think the big question at this
point is whether this is the full extent
of Israel's retaliation or whether there
is going to be more to come if it is the
case that Israel has carried out a
single fairly targeted strike even if it
is in a highly sensitive location like
the southern suburbs of Beirut it may
very well be that Hezbollah does not
feel it needs to retaliate in a major
way the other big question Zin Clay is
whether or not they killed this
Commander that will be a big factor in
the scale of hezbollah's response so in
the coming hours we will find out zlay a
lot more to come Ral Sanchez thanks as
always thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media