tonight 17 days after former president
Trump survived an assassination attempt
by a gunman on a rooftop a remarkable
admission from the acting secret service
director who says he went to the rally
site I laid it in a prone position to
evaluate his line of
sight what I saw made me
ashamed as a career law enforcement
officer and a 25-year veteran with his
secret service I cannot defend why that
roof was not better secure
today we pressed attorney general Merck
Garland in an exclusive interview you
heard the acting secret service director
say today that he was ashamed of the
security failures that almost cost a
former president his life as the
nation's top law enforcement officer how
do you feel about what happened look
this attack on the former president uh
was a heinous attack on former president
Trump but also a heinous attack on our
democracy itself this was a major
security failure how alarmed are you
that a 20-year-old was able to get a
clear shot 150 yard from a former
president so this is extremely alarming
that's why we have to find out what
happened here why it happened and make
sure it doesn't happen again in a
hearing today acting secret service
director Ronald R grilled by lawmakers
stop interrupting me go ahead you are
refusing to answer clear and direct
questions demanding to know why no one
has been fired yet we are investigating
this what the decis to investigate to
know that they were critical enough
failures that some individuals ought to
be held accountable I mean what more do
you need to know what I need to know is
exactly what happened and I need
acknowledging the assassination attempt
could have been prevented if his agency
had deployed technology that would have
revealed the gunman flew a drone over
head two hours before Mr Trump spoke I
feel as
though we could have perhaps found him
we could have maybe stopped him the
deputy FBI director revealing the
Discover of a social media account
linked to the gunman though not yet
verified some of these comments appear
to reflect anti-semitic and
anti-immigration themes to espouse
political violence while Garland telling
us more about the Iranian threat against
Mr Trump and other former US officials
our intelligence Community has made
clear that we believe that the Iranians
are attempting to kill uh or uh injure
um uh former uh High government
officials this is an ongoing issue we
have ongoing investigations you don't
think we've seen the end I don't think
we've seen the end of Iranian plotting
no meanwhile both Garland and the FBI
said there's no doubt former president
Trump was hit by a bullet Lester cand
delanian thanks thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

