Israel has struck back after that rocket
attack that killed a dozen children over
the weekend launching an air strike near
Beirut at least one woman reported dead
dozens injured Matt Bradley is there
tonight Matt what's the
latest good evening Lester Israel said
it struck a stronghold of the militant
group Hezbollah here in lebanon's
capital in the attack the IDF says
killed fad shuker a top leader and the
Israelis said shuker led a Hezbollah
attack on a soccer field in the goal on
Heights over the weekend that killed 12
children and teenagers but there are
fears here Lester that this might not be
over that tonight's attack could spark a
wider conflict separate from that
fighting in Gaza and the White House
Tonight said it doesn't believe allout
war is inevitable but that's going to
depend on Hezbollah and Israel whether
they decide to escalate or step back
from the brink Lester thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

