those storms are only making matters
worse in Vermont where overnight
flooding has left some communities
devastated NBC News correspondent a
mclin joins me now from lindenville
Vermont Aaron talk to us about some of
the damage that you're seeing there on
the
ground hey Valerie well in some parts of
Vermont 8 in plus of rain fell within a
24hour period leaving behind scenes of
Destruction like this I want to take you
on a little to see just was left
behind it's hard to believe that this is
the product of a single rain Stormer
scene down trees down power lines homes
completely submerged in mud in fact this
whole area was submerged up until around
3:00 this afternoon the water has now
receded but devastating homes I'm
speaking to local residents Jeremy Greer
lives in this area he said that he came
home last night at around 2:40 in the
morning he said it was raining hard he
said the water from the local Creek was
rising and he knew he needed to get his
family and his neighbors out he went
over to that home just over that way
warned two elderly women living there
that they needed to evacuate as well
called local authorities for help he
made it out just in time because not not
much left U not much was left
behind I feel like I'm in a nightmare I
I'm just waiting to wake up there's no
other way to really describe it her
house
my other neighbor's house my house is
torn to
shreds I mean my roof's there my house
is over
there my bedroom walls are down
there absolute
[Music]
disaster and this is the second time his
home has been flooded in the last month
he said earlier this month it was also
flooded by Hurricane Barrel he said the
remnants of hurricane Barrel rather he
said that he doesn't know what he's
going to do next but he knows he needs
to leave this area Valerie Ain how did
it get so bad and is anything being done
to prevent more destructive flooding we
know there are more storms expected
tomorrow yeah you know speaking to
meteorologists and they're telling me
that this is the product of climate
change they said that Vermont has just
simply not seen this much rain in recent
years they're pointing to that change in
the climate in terms of what happened
here it really comes down to the
topography these Creeks are not formed
to be able to handle the kind of volume
of water that they saw in the last 24
hours they are expecting more
thunderstorms in the forecast for
tomorrow but they were saying that
because there's such localized events
it's very difficult uh to tell where
this kind of Destruction where this kind
of rainfall is going to happen so as we
saw last night locals don't get much
notice okay Aon ml in Vermont for us
tonight Aaron thank you thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

