tonight thousands of people fill the
streets of Venezuela to denounce what
they call a stolen
election President Nicolas Muro claiming
a narrow victory in Sunday's vote while
the opposition led by Maria Corina
machalo says that its candidate won in a
landslide
publishing what they say is proof that
they got more than double the votes won
by Malo whose government refuses to
publish the official election results
and is now calling the protests in
attempted
coup with some officials calling for
opposition leaders to be sent to prison
[Applause]
one prominent opposition party saying
its leader was detained Tuesday nearly
750 people have been arrested amid the
protest and at least 11 people have died
according to government officials and a
local NGO demands for transparency now
coming from the White House but also
from countries friendly to Venezuela
including leftwing governments in Brazil
Colombia and Chile mudo has survived
many protests in the past but after
years of economic desperation that
pushed 20% of the country to migrate
abroad protests erupting in poor and
workingclass neighborhoods historically
supportive of the
government after 11 years of Malo in
power Venezuelan asking once again is
the tide finally turning against it
David Nora NBC news thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

