India's Monsoon rains were supposed to
bring relief from scorching heat instead
flooding and landslides triggered
disaster killing dozens in the southern
state of Carolina extreme weather crises
blamed by some experts on climate
change around the world Rising
temperatures have led to heat warnings
forest fires wilting crops across Asia
Europe and the
US according to new data compiled by
NASA July 22nd was the hottest day on
record for the planet ever part of what
scientists call a long-term warming
Trend driven by human activities
primarily the emission of greenhouse
gases few places on Earth show the
critical challenge of extreme and Rising
heat like
India where record heat waves this
summer had temperatures hovering at 115Â°
or higher intense hot stretches that
experts say are longer and more
dangerous people who don't live in India
might think well India is always hot the
Heatwave uh advisories have come in
consecutively for the third year now
this year has undoubtedly been
intolerable the concern is when humidity
is added to temperature known as a wet
bulb measurement when that level
approaches the body's temperature it's
harder for humans to sweat and survive
in a report last November the World Bank
warned that wet bulb temperatures in
India could make it one of the first
places to test that
threshold already in teaming cities like
New Deli drinking water for Millions is
so scarce that the government has moved
to ration it the water trucks come two
or three times a day here but it runs
out fast and there's never enough sales
of air conditioners have surged but only
for those who can afford it the
International Energy agency predicts
that by 2050 India will have a billion
AC's going all of them kicking off off
even more
heat with temperatures on the rise this
group of friends is hitting the
streets they give out hats and umbrellas
to Street vendors and laborers who have
no way to hide from extreme heat unless
we start the change in ourselves and
start bringing the change in our daily
life uh climate change will not get
better this should not be the norm
people need to start realizing this is
not okay India's government has long had
a heat action plan but people are being
forced to adapt to a new era of
temperatures that just keep Rising
Janice Macky frer NBC News New Delhi
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

