vice president Harris tonight arriving
in Georgia a state that Democrats feared
was becoming Out Of Reach but now with a
new likely nominee hoped to win again
earlier asked whether she'd picked a
running
mate Harris at the rally tonight
challenging Mr Trump to agree to a
debate I do hope you'll reconsider to
meet me on the debate
[Music]
[Applause]
stage because as the saying goes if you
got something to
say say it to my
face meanwhile Trump running M JD Vance
is set to visit the Border Thursday to
attack the Biden Harris Administration
as weak on illegal immigration after
bringing them all here they proposed
amnesty for millions of illegal aliens
she might as well have invited them
personally to break our laws and come
into our
country it's also the focus of this new
Trump ad under Harris over 10 million
illegally here former president Trump
overnight defending Vance's
controversial comments from 2021
critical of democratic leaders who are
quote childless cat ladies referencing
Vance's rise from poverty he grew up in
a very interesting family situation and
he feels family is good and I don't
think there's anything wrong in saying
that well tonight the director of a
conservative group's project 2025 Vision
calling for an overhaul of the federal
government has stepped down the group
faced escalating Democratic attacks and
comes after Trump sharply criticized
project 2025 that's run by a number of
his allies the Trump campaign saying
reports of project 2025 is demise would
be greatly welcomed meanwhile in The
crucial Atlanta suburbs Democrat Kim
Loudermilk was anxious when President
Biden dropped out of the race I was
worried that it was too close to the
election and that um you know it would
be hard to get a a campaign together and
now what do you think and now I'm super
excited about uh KAC but Republican Ben
Wilson blames both Biden and Harris for
high prices and everything from gas
prices to you know it just eggs the cost
of living it's everything economy L and
we'll learn vice president Harris's
running mate Choice soon two sources
familiar with the Bell NBC news they
will tour Battleground States together
beginning next week thanks for watching
stay updated about break news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media