welcome back if you've been patiently
waiting for interest rates to drop
perhaps so you can buy a home well then
you might want to keep an eye on today's
Federal Reserve meeting we're expecting
a much anticipated decision on interest
rates year has now passed since the last
rate hike since then inflation has
slowly dropped so many Americans are
hoping we're finally due for a rate cut
at some point and some much needed
Financial relief our goto expert on all
things inflation Investopedia Editor in
Chief Caleb silver joins us now all
right so what are we expecting what are
the odds that we see a rate cut this
time around yeah less than 3% so don't
expect one today you're probably going
to have to wait 56 days and 32 minutes
for that that's the FED meeting on
September 18th that's when the fed's
been signaling it's going to lower
interest rates it's been watching
inflation very closely and as a as of
last week we got the report for July
it's down to about 2.6% 2.5% for the pce
and we're also watching the labor market
two things the FED really cares a lot
about inflation and full employment both
are kind of steady right now the
unemployment rate 4.1% so fed share pal
today is going to say the data looks
good we're getting ready and we're
getting closer to that we're hoping to
hear he's going to lay the foundation
and the FED is going to lay a foundation
for a ray cut in September and that is
the key we hear him speak after the
decision and that's really what we're
paying attention to right words matter
and we parse those words from meeting to
meeting very carefully to see if there's
a shift in tone a shift in an adjective
maybe they're using a different noun
they're talking about a cooling of
inflation good progress on inflation
things like that are going to make the
case stronger that we'll finally see
that Ray cut in September we've been
waiting a long time for this as you
mentioned interest rates have been this
High between 5 and a quarter and 5 and a
half% for a year the FED rais rates for
the very uh last time about a year ago
the FED has been trying to tow this line
try to control inflation but not dip us
into a recession so far it's been
successful are there worries the FED
should have been dropping these interest
rates sooner yeah there are two camps on
that there's a camp that says you got to
cut rates now before the economy slows
but as of the last GDP gross domestic uh
product report the economy is growing at
a 2.8% clip as of the last quarter it is
going too slow know that so the FED is
thinking of this like a hot air balloon
if they cut rates now they may Spike
inflation again back to where it was or
or not definitely not to where it was
but up a few percentage points if they
wait and they watch this data and they
cut in September as planned we may get
that soft Landing that the fed's been
trying to engineer since this whole
thing began when we do see the cut
assuming that it is in September what's
the immediate impact that Americans will
see the type of thing you see at the
grocery store what does it mean for if
you're trying to buy a home yeah lower
interest rates don't mean lower prices
it just means the cost of money is
cheaper so more borrowing you may see uh
definitely mortgage rates come down
right now they're at 7 half% for the
30-year you'll see new car loans come
down the rate for that and credit card
APR is very big because Americans have
record high credit card debt at the same
time you'll see the money you earn in
the bank come down that 5% maybe you
gotten a CD or high old savings account
so there's a seesaw there you give up
some savings for lower borrowing costs
inflation right now is still hovering
around 3% the goal is to try and get to
2% in this world we live in right now is
that even a possibility and people have
been saying this is an impossible Target
somewhere between 2 2 and a half% would
be nice and you want a little inflation
companies need pricing power so they can
pay their employees more we need that
but we don't want too much not too hot
not too cold hopefully we'll see some
signals today that we're right in the
right goldilock spot all right Kaleb
silver thank you so much appreciate it
as always thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and tops
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

