today former president Trump does head
back to Pennsylvania for the first time
since the assassination attempt against
him Mr Trump has set to hold a campaign
event tonight in Harrisburg with
thousands expected to attend it has been
18 days since the former president held
that now Infamous rally in Butler where
a gunman opened fire from a nearby roof
grazing his ear with a bullet one person
was killed two others were injured in
that shooting NBC News correspondent
Dasha Burns has been covering the Trump
campaign she joins us now with the
latest Dasha good morning so what can we
expect at tonight's rally we know these
rallies are happening indoors now but
what's the security
situation yeah Joe a couple of things it
being indoors is is certainly a big
shift uh many of Trump's rallies before
this had been outside and yeah expect
heightened security we don't have
explicit details on that as you can
imagine they are trying to keep some of
that close to the vest but there will be
more security here and given it's his
first time in Pennsylvania since the
assassination attempt I would also
expect the former president to address
it I'll also be watching Joe for the
messaging pivot on vice president kamla
Harris at his last rally Biden was very
much a focus even though he had already
left the race but the Trump campaign is
trying out new attack lines on Harris uh
on the border on her time as a
prosecutor trying out new nicknames and
these are really an important few weeks
for the Trump campaign strategy against
a new opponent Joe thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or or follow
us on social media