call police open the
door huh officers make their presence
known at an apartment in the 900 block
of North
Charles to be greeted with screams for
help let me your and eventually finding
57-year-old Anthony George later lunging
into a nearby room grabbing
four-year-old Terrell
Miller a single gunshot killing them
both in an instant Anthony was uh
intoxicated um and things went left like
he told me if I can't have you nobody
can and that's exactly how Terrell's
mother Kiana Miller remembers it no
justice no peace now a call to action
Miller along with about 50 others
rallied in March for policy reform
within the mome police department they
could have did anything besides used
their weapon they had tasers they had
pepper spray and policy is what police
chief Jeff hamr says he's looking into
with an internal investigation in a July
24th interview hamr called it his
priority feel I'm I'm you know 80 to 90%
of the way there tell me how that was
police procedure was their reason they
said in the
report that he acted within the
guidelines for the use of deadly
for Miller's attorney Marina Suarez
saying Officer Nick GW who hamr
confirmed as the shooter should have
used deescalation in negotiation tactics
he was a bright young man he never did
nothing wrong he didn't deserve to get
killed by the police Suarez claiming the
case Cas is far from over and that a
civil lawsuit will be filed by the end
of next week it may be the only
alternative open to us at this point and
in the meantime Miller hopes change will
stem from Hammer's internal look but she
isn't holding her breath she remembers
her son who would have turned five about
two weeks ago as a ball of sunshine who
was everyone's best friend you had a bad
day and you looked at he hey I'm Terell
how are you doing you know he did he
didn't have a enemy on this Earth in
mome Smith wgm
news thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media
