three photographers who captured would
have become three of the most iconic
images from Saturday's attempted
assassination on former president Donald
Trump the associated presses Evan vuci
took this now indelible photo of the
defiant Republican nominee pumping his
fist in the air with an American flag
flying above and a money maker with
Getty Images snapped the tightly framed
sobering image of Mr Trump crunched down
on the stage surrounded by Secret
Service as blood dripped down his face
and Doug Mills with the New York Times
took that remarkable photo appearing to
show a bullet streaking past the former
president take a look at what
happened all three photo journalists are
now speaking out about what it was like
to be there as the shots rang out and
how they managed to capture these photos
while being so dangerously close to the
line of fire did you realize that you
were taking such an iconic photo as you
were taking it no I had I honestly had
no idea I was literally in the moment
just trying to do my job like okay is
the exposure right or my is my
composition right is do I see his face I
saw the blood coming down his face and I
knew that I got the the image but in
that moment I'm just trying to see okay
this is probably going to be one of the
most important things I'll ever
photograph am I missing anything is
there anything happening on around me so
I wasn't thinking about like the impact
of the photography I was thinking only
about like continuing to do the job
because as a photographer I don't have a
second chance I have to get it right
then and there I'm there to do a job I
mean I was saying to myself under my
breath like oh my God oh my God oh my
God but I just kind of like said Anna
just like keep going keep taking the
pictures and then I see through like one
of the agents legs I see Trump's face
and that's when I'm like I pull out my
like 70 to 200 and just thankfully like
get it in focus and just like hit the
shutter next to them in the buffer Mills
who has been covering the white house
for more than 40 years I couldn't
believe I still can't believe it Mills
saying he captured the Bullet by
shooting with an exposure of 1 18,000 of
a second what do you think the chances
are that you actually popped that bullet
oh I've heard um one forensic guy told
me it's between one and a million and
one and five million chances did you do
that could be able to to that that
happen was just again very lucky the
three images will no doubt be part of
the history books much like the famous
photo by Bill ID capturing the moment a
bus boy went to help Robert F Kennedy
moments after he was assassinated in
1968 and the image by Associated Press
photographer Ron Edmonds showing the
moment President Ronald Reagan was
rushed to his motorcade after being shot
in 1981 Ron Edmund's a former AP
photographer and a colleague of mine for
15 years he was a mentor and he always
went in not away luckily I didn't blink
like Ron didn't blink none of my
colleagues blink we have a long line of
amazing photojournalism and I'm happy
that in the moment that it was my time
to to hold the standard I was able to
hold the standard Liz CS NBC news thanks
for watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

