well I can tell you the decision came
out of a divided School Board vote here
uh now she might not be getting fired
but it's not clear if she's actually
going back to work so the school
employee that we're talking about is
Jessica Norton one of several Monarch
High School staffers removed from the
school last November after it was
revealed that her transgender daughter
played for the girls volleyball team now
at the time Norton worked as an
information management specialist at the
Coconut Creek School well the school
board voted five to for Tuesday to
suspend her for 10 days after Brower
superintendent Howard heurn recommended
she'd be fired while Commissioners who
voted to fire her say Norton knowingly
violated the state law that bans
transgender girls from playing on girls
teams those who voted to suspend her say
she and her family have suffered enough
he's right I mean nobody can understand
what we've been through um we've been
through uh death threats uh harassing
phone calls letters sent to our house um
and this was all because of something
that they did it wasn't something that I
did um I was protecting my child um
again I did nothing wrong well in May of
this year the other suspended School
Employees including the principal uh
were welcomed back to school after they
were cleared of any wrongdoing uh after
an investigation for now reporting in
Fort ladder delar NBC 6 news thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

