some of the reporters who were assembled
there and right out of the gates there
was what can best be described as a
contentious exchange where the former
president said I'm asking this through
the lens of someone who represents the
president vice president not someone who
have to speak uh as a campaign question
he says of comma Harris the vice
president she was always of Indian
Heritage and she was only promoting
Indian Heritage I didn't know she was
black until a number of years ago and
she happened to turn black he said and
now she wants to be known as black so I
didn't know is she Indian or is she
black she has always a uh this is
unclear I respect either one but she
obviously doesn't because she was Indian
all the way and then all of a sudden she
made a turn and she went black your
response to those
comments uh he is a candidate so I'm
going to be super careful wait no no no
hold on hold on I I have more to say I
certainly have more to
say as a person of color as a black
woman who is in this position that is
standing before you be this Podium
behind this Le turn what he just said
what you just read out to me is
repulsive it's
insulting and you know no one has any
right to tell someone who they are how
they identify that is no one's right it
is someone's own decisions uh it
is I'll add
this only she can speak to her
experience only she she can speak to
what it's like she's the only person
that can do
that and I think it's insulting for
anybody it doesn't matter if it's a
former leader a former president it it
is
insulting and we have to put she is the
vice president of the United States KLA
Harris we have to put some respect on
her name period thank
you my goodness that had John all the
way in the back uh thanks K can you talk
about what efforts are being undertaken
as it relates to those thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

