uh so I wanted to uh mention that the
president and the first lady and the
entire Administration are proudly
cheering on Team USA the women of USA
Gymnastics brought home a gold medal
with an unbelievable performance and
Simone biles now has more Olympic medals
than any us gymnast in history and the
US men's gymnastics team brought home
their first medal in 16 years but it's
not just our gymnasts that are winning
big the US swim team have scored gold in
two contests and the women's rugby team
won their first ever Olympic medal with
an incredible win from tennis soccer and
basketball to fencing track and
volleyball our nation's athletes are
making us all proud our athletes are as
the president said the big reason so
many of us believe we can do big things
and not to brck too much but USA is also
currently uh lead leading the Olympic
Games with the most medals as the first
lady said ahead of the opening ceremony
and I quote our athletes carry more than
just our flag they carry our nation's
heart and our hopes with them too so we
wish the team all the team of uh the
Team USA all of them good luck as they
continue to make us proud We are
especially excited to see the women's
soccer team and the men's basketball
team in action today I'm worrying my
Olympic Team USA gear so go Team USA
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

