in majority Latino Reading Pennsylvania
brothers and Barbers Samuel and David de
la Cruz say the Talk of the Town is
politics it's been exciting it's been
such a uh uh unexpected change well do
you care more about the election now I
do I do we first met the duo both of
Dominican descent before former
president Trump survived an
assassination attempt and pig JD Vance
as his running mate and Harris Rose to
the top of the ticket both voters remain
firmly under decided but newly energized
she has
Direction and I think it uh even a
playing field for the for the two
candidates is she going to advance the
country is it possible that she takes it
maybe in Reverse we don't know yet
18-year-old Jamal Garcia a student at
the brothers Barber Shop says he'll vote
for the first time and how are you
feeling about possibly voting for either
one of these candidates it's in my
opinion kind of nervous according to
ano's us one out of every five Hispanics
will vote in their first presidential
election this year reading sits in
Pennsylvania's so-called Latino belt
cities in small towns once Democratic
strongholds nestled in northeastern
Pennsylvania in this region Latino
communities make up 9% of the state's
overall population does it feel like
both campaigns are trying to earn your
vote definitely Biden won Pennsylvania
by around 80,000 votes in 2020 that year
more than 610,000 Latinos were eligible
to vote in the state and while Mr Biden
won reading by about 46 points in 2020
the city shifted 15 points to the right
since 2016 limited recent polling shows
Harris performing better than Biden
versus Trump among Latino voters in 2020
who did you vote for and why Biden
pargal M this Teresa explained last
month when we visited she's switching to
Trump in 2024 frustrated by the rising
cost of living and running a business in
Reading
Biden's endorsement of Paris only
pushing her further away she now
volunteers at the recently open Trump
campaign office it's just I don't trust
her why
because her background I don't trust her
decisions is been letting young T
Melendez thinks putting Pennsylvania
Governor Josh Shapiro on the Democratic
ticket this year would make a difference
does she need Josh Shapiro to secure I
think she does people who are not very
invested in the election will tend to
follow somebody that they Trust
Melinda's moved from Puerto Rico with
her family when she was 14 she'll vote
Harrison November the vp's visit here
leaving a lasting impact the fact that
she came down in the middle of the city
to talk to people at the community
college for me was the most positive
thing reading restaurant owner Caesar
Lopez also recalls Harris's trip but
hasn't been swayed yet I think
everybody's waiting for the next debate
let's see what happened with less than
100 days to the election reading's
residents are paying attention and feel
the weight of the decision ahead think
about what you want for your country
what you want for the kids I want them
to be able to say wow things are
different now than they were for for Mom
and Dad and I'm so happy that we're in
this country thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media