multiple infernos now raging in Colorado
if the wind switches directions um I
think that we could be in big trouble
the Stone Canyon fire Northwest of
Denver now deadly one person was killed
after Flames tore through homes in the
town of lions five structures Up in
Smoke and late today a new fire burning
homes in the hills of Boulder further
south the Quarry fire igniting overnight
almost 600 homes of evacuated there was
a
flashlight uh shining in the window and
it was the sheriff telling us we had to
evacuate the fire small but challenging
with Crews and resources stretched thin
Joe Loren has been watching the fire
grow what's your biggest concern right
now I don't want to lose my home I don't
want to lose my neighbors every
neighborhood in this facility is at risk
this fire is not an easy fight the
terrain is treacherous and this is what
they're talking about here this steep
terrain on top of that another big
concern are rattlesnakes there are a lot
of them here making it even more
dangerous and challenging for
firefighters to do their job and get
that under control this fire among 95
burning across the West including in
Oregon Washington and
California where crews are getting a
handle on the massive Park fire after it
chewed through more than 300 structures
as evacuees return home some finding
nothing left behind it's just that hope
that maybe you'll flip something over
and it won't be
ashes and Lester the Colorado governor
tonight has called in the National Guard
to help manage these
fires thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media