tonight a report out from the UN is
making new claims about the way Israel
they say treats its Palestinian
detainees this report from the un's
human rights office based on interviews
with former detainees describes
allegations of severe torture including
reports of being held in cage-like
facilities water boarding sleep food and
water deprivation electric shocks
setting dogs on prisoners getting
stripped naked and some other forms of
mistreatment the Israeli military
responding to this report said abuse of
detainees is illegal and against
military orders and that investigations
are launched into all detainee deaths in
custody now in a new NBC News exclusive
a former Palestinian detainee is
detailing their account in line with the
un's findings NBC's H garani has the
story and we want to warn you some of
what you're going to hear is
disturbing on July 9th mua zayat walked
out of an Israeli prison a Broken Man in
fact he could barely walk at all his
legs shattered his right arm
fractured confused and emaciated once a
fit 200b amateur bodybuilder the
39-year-old father of five tells us he
was relentlessly tortured in knockup
prison in the neav desert they stripped
me and began to beat me while I was
naked he told me in an exclusive
interview from his home in Bethlehem in
the West Bank they even hit me on the
genital organs he said
and the people with you as well I ask
yes they used to beat all the prisoners
and even when they handcuffed us they
used to make us sit on the ground like
animals he says Israeli intelligence
Services shinb bet did not respond to
our request to respond to a bat's
account but it is this type of alleged
abuse by guards at another desert prison
that led far right Israeli protesters to
break into the seded tamom detention
Camp Monday not to protest suspected
prisoner abuse but to try to stop the
Israeli police from arresting and
questioning nine guards suspected of
torturing detainees they were
accompanied by several far-right members
of the Israeli Parliament screaming
death to
terrorists since the October 7th attacks
NBC News has interviewed former
detainees both in Gaza and the West Bank
who give largely similar accounts of
severe mistreatment and detention
like this group of prisoners released
July 25th some unable to walk others
suffering from Amnesia and broken bones
according to their relatives the IDF has
told NBC news they treat detainees
according to international law human
rights groups like HRW dispute that and
say the arrests and abuses have
increased since October 7th under
International humanitarian law the the
icrc the Red Cross has the main mandate
to monitor detention facilities and
there has been absolutely no visits so
there's complete isolation and no
awareness to what's exactly happening in
these detention conditions except when
whistleblowers speak to journalists
speak to media and and are able to
really give us a sense of what's going
on muaz obaya told us Israeli forces
called him a killer something he denies
he said he was interrogated only once in
9 months no charges were ever filed
aayat was held under so-called
administrative detention where
Palestinian prisoners can be detained
without charge and without any evidence
against
them your family didn't know your
whereabouts at the time what was
happening to you I
asked I was isolated from the world he
responded neev prison is the worst
torture prison known in history we the
prisoners named it
guantan his fifth child a son was born
while he was held in captivity aayat
says he now carries the prison within
him and that even though he's home he's
not entirely free Hala garani NBC News
Bethlehem thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media