at the Olympics the mascot plays a
starring role hyping the crowd taking
selfies but there's a question a lot of
people have this summer in Paris what is
this what is this what is it well it's
the Olympic mascot what did you think it
was when you first saw it I I don't know
neither did I are these the arms they
well I think they're the arms these are
certainly the legs turns out the mascot
is actually a hat the character is f a
what how's your French pronunciation not
great f f pretty good A little bit
more ah there you go perfect a hat with
huge significance in French history
during the French Revolution in the
1780s they were wearing this as a sign
of Liberty you know getting away from
the monarchy in fact the free was worn
at the famous storming of the bastile
right where podcaster Oliver G and I are
standing imagine in the 1780s there was
a big prison there and uh it was stormed
this is the start of the French
Revolution revolutionaries wearing hats
similar to to this becoming an important
symbol of Liberty and freedom they
stormed the bastile in the free in the
fridge with one of these mascots tuck
under their own not exactly but the
popularity of the Hat stuck in paintings
and in the culture so when it was
announced as the mascot to the 2024
Olympic Games the French were thrilled
kiosks like this one are set up all
across the city this one is by the arc
DET trie they sell all sorts of stuff in
there mugs bags and of course mascots
and they are flying off the shelves
after all who can resist a humaniz hat
with a history and a smile strolling the
Sham Stephanie gos NBC News
Paris thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media