Lei winning gold here at the 2024 Paris
Olympics the amazing Triumph Lei
dominating in the pool in the women's
1500 meter freestyle after setting a new
olympic record she's talking to us
tonight also the triathlon held today
after concerns about pollution in the
Sin the swimmers battling the river's
current and in tennis the Americans
knocking out Spain's dream team as
Rafael Nadal played his final match also
tonight the controversial comments by
Donald Trump attacking kamla Harris's
race the former president saying Harris
quote happened to turn black now she is
responding to that tonight Justin
accused 9911 Mastermind khed shik
Muhammad and two other allege plotters
reaching a plea deal the assassination
rocking the Middle East one of hamas's
top leaders killed in a strike in Iran
the militant group blaming Israel will
it lead to a wider War The Deadly
wildfires burning near Denver nearly 600
homes evacuated in the middle of the
night plus the victory 100 years in the
making meet the women of the US rugby
team after their musty last second upset
and they're everywhere here in Paris
t-shirts caps and key rings but the
question on everyone's mind what exactly
is the Olympics
mascot this is NBC Nightly News
reporting tonight from the Olympics in
Paris here is Lester Holt
Katie Ledecky wins gold in 1,500-meter freestyle
good evening and welcome American
swimmer Katie Lei doing what she came
here to do in Paris win medals her
blistering finish in the women's 1500
meter freestyle race earned Lei her
eighth career Olympic gold medal tying
the record for most gold won by an
American woman the swimming Phenom could
add to her Hardware collection with two
more big races this week other big
headlines from here tonight officials
say the bacterial readings in the sen
dropped to within safe limits allowing
the grueling women's Triathlon to go
forward without delay this morning after
the men's race was postponed by a day
because of poor water quality here's
where things stand on day five of the
Paris games the US leads the metal count
with 30 China and France have earned the
most
gold and Tom yamas was at the pool
tonight Tom what did Katie leeki tell
you about her race yeah ler I was right
there when Katy Lei won the entire Arena
was shaking as you're about to hear she
tells me that every is special but that
she still has more work to do here in
Paris her metal run could just be
getting
started the greatest swimming machine
we've ever seen make it gold medal
number eight for Katie Lei setting an
olympic record in her signature race the
1500 meter freestyle what more can
America expect from you at these Paris
games I'm going to get my best effort
each race and and represent Team USA to
the best of my ability and hopefully
bring home some more Hardware the crowd
is roaring and and that wasn't the only
Olympic record broken in the pool
tonight French Superstar Leo Maron
smashing another on his way to his
second goal husk hanging tough up there
in Lane one while American Tor husk
picked up her third medal of these games
I know it was possible but it's still so
excited to be on the podium again the
racers are now set to dive into the S
and there was more swimming action
outside the pool in the triathlon
pollution nearly led to the swimming
portion being called off but today
organiz ERS felt it was safe enough to
jump in athletes say the toughest part
was the current which some athletes said
caused them to swallow mouthfuls of
water this looks like a better run in
the final for lead fart Team USA picked
up medals in Cano slom and BMX freestyle
there it is and the men's basketball
team kept cruising through their
tournament easily handling South
Sudan if that's in it's over in tennis
rapael Nadal and Carlos alarz fell to
the Americans in doubles ending run
together and knocking Nadal out of the
Olympics rumors now swirling about his
retirement this court has been good to
him and he has been so good for tennis
this is a full s routine after winning
Bronze in the team event earlier this
week the American men were shut out of
medals in the allaround 1 2 3 go and
even though she didn't medal today
synchronized diver Jessica parado still
staying true to that Olympic Spirit
results doesn't it just doesn't matter
um just I'm so proud of it
Tom yamas NBC News Paris and tonight on
prime time in Paris you can see Katie
leeki in action along with the men in
the gymnastics allaround final all
starting at 8 Eastern former president
Trump falsely questions Harris' race
Trump is facing harsh criticism tonight
for questioning vice president Harris's
black identity during an interview with
black journalists here's Garrett
H former president Trump facing Fierce
backlash tonight after falsely claiming
vice president Harris who went to a his
ially black college and is a member of a
black sorority did not identify as black
I didn't know she was black until a
number of years ago when she happened to
turn black and now she wants to be known
as black so I don't know is she Indian
or is she black I respect either one but
she obviously doesn't because she was
Indian all the way and then all of a
sudden she made a turn and she went she
became a black person the White House
responding in real time what you just
read out to me is repulsive it's
insulting Harris is the daughter of
Indian and Jamaican immigrants her
campaign tonight saying quote today's
tiate is simply a taste of the chaos and
division that has been a Hallmark of
Trump's Maga rallies this entire
campaign and called on him to debate it
all unfolded during an often combative
interview at a black journalism
conference the former president there to
court black voters I've done so much for
the black population of this country uh
including uh employment including uh
opportunity zones but later was pressed
about his comments that the record
number of migrants have hit the black
population hard taking what he termed
black jobs coming from the border are
millions and millions of people that
happen to be taking black jobs you had
the best what exactly is a black job sir
a black job is anybody that has a job
that's what it is anybody that has a job
all right and they're taking they're
taking the employment away from black
people the Trump campaign has been going
after after Harris on immigration she
unleashed the worst border crisis in
American history on her watch but Harris
flipping the script overnight pointing
to Trump's efforts to Scuttle a
bipartisan border Bill he said wasn't
Tough Enough he tanked tanked the
bipartisan deal because he thought it
would help him win an
election which goes to show Donald Trump
does not care about border of security
he only cares about himself Trump
defiant tonight blasting the questions
at that event as rude and nasty while
Source close to the Harris campaign
describes them as painful and completely
unhinged
Lester all right Garrett he thank you
Accused 9/11 plotters reach plea deal
just tonight wor that the accused
Mastermind of the 911 terrorist attack
khed shik Mohamad and two accomplices
have reached plea agreements Courtney QB
is tracking this at the Pentagon
Courtney what more do we know well
Lester the Pentagon just announced the
three men khed shik Mohammad wed benach
and Mustafa Al hawsawi will plead guilty
to some charges as early as next week as
part of plea agreements in the military
commission's process they've been held
at GMO for years with the US accusing
the al-Qaeda terrorist suspects of
plotting the 911 attacks that killed
nearly 3,000 people now the details of
the plea Agreements are still unknown
but they are expected to plead guilty to
lesser charges that could spare them the
death penalty sentencing may not come
for months but they'll likely appear at
a hearing in Guantanamo in the coming
days Lester Courtney CU tonight thank
Top Hamas leader assassinated in Iran
you and in the Middle East this evening
there is growing fear of a broader war
between Israel and Iranian back
militants after the killing of top
leaders of both Hamas and Hezbollah Raph
Sanchez is in Tel Aviv tonight
Raph Lester Israel is bracing for
retaliation on multiple fronts tonight
and now the state department issuing a
stark new warning to US citizens get out
of South Lebanon because new fighting
may be about to
erupt tonight cries for revenge against
Israel echoing across the Middle East
after the Brazen assassination of
hamas's political Chief in the heart of
the Iranian Capital isma Han killed in
an Israeli missile strike just hours
after meeting Iran's supreme leader
according to State media Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tonight
refusing to say if his country was
responsible but warning Israel will
exact a heavy price for any aggression
against us now fears growing that hi's
violent death could derail fragile
ceasefire talks and Spark a wider War
the White House racing to keep diplomacy
alive I think it's too soon to know what
any of these reported events uh could
mean for the ceasefire deal that doesn't
mean we're going to stop working on it
84-year-old odad lifshitz kidnapped on
October 7 has been held hostage in Gaza
for
299 days we met his grandson Daniel do
you think Benjamin Netanyahu is serious
about getting a deal to bring the
hostages home I think that if he is not
serious about getting the hostages home
the Americans need to make all the
necessary pressure that he will do so a
thousand miles away from Iran in Beirut
the capital of
Lebanon Hezbollah confirming one of its
top commanders was killed by an Israeli
strike Israel says fuad shuer was
responsible for the deaths of 12
children in a rocket attack but Lebanon
says this brother and sister were also
killed in the Israeli bombing a cycle of
Revenge that's taking the region to the
brink of War Raph Sanchez NBC News Tel
Aviv the newest Wildfire emergency is in
Deadly wildfires force evacuations in Colorado
Colorado where one person has been
killed and hundreds of homes have been
evacuated as Liz KZ reports the fires
there are among almost 100 burning in
the west right
now a summer of wildfire not letting up
with multiple inferos now raging in
Colorado if the wind switches directions
um I think that we could be in big
trouble the Stone Canyon fire Northwest
of Denver now deadly one person was
killed after Flames tore through homes
in the town of lions five structures Up
in Smoke and late today a new fire
burning homes in the hills of Boulder
further south the Quarry fire igniting
overnight almost 600 homes evacuated
there was a
flashlight uh shining in the window and
it was the sheriff telling us we had to
evacuate the fire small but challenging
with Crews and resources stretched thin
Joe Len has been watching the fire grow
what's your biggest concern right now I
don't want to lose my home I don't want
to lose my neighbors every neighborhood
in this facility is at risk this fire is
not an easy fight
the terrain is treacherous and this is
what they're talking about here this
steep terrain on top of that another big
concern are rattlesnakes there are a lot
of them here making it even more
dangerous and challenging for
firefighters to do their job and get
that under control this fire among 95
burning across the West including in
Oregon Washington and
California where crews are getting a
handle on the massive Park fire after it
chewed through more than 300 structures
as a vacu return home some finding
nothing left behind it's just that hope
that maybe you'll flip something over
and it won't be
ashes and Lester the Colorado governor
tonight has called in the National Guard
to help manage these
fires all right Liz C thank you and in
Flooding emergency in Northern Vermont
the northeast tonight storms on the move
and flood watches in effect after heavy
rain in Northern Vermont triggered the
second flash flood emergency in the
state this month entire neighborhoods
left underwater homes ripped from their
foundations cars and trees tossed about
and Roads washed away in 60 seconds I
speak with the American women who pulled
off that last second Dash into history
on the rugby pitch one of the great
upsets of these Olympics right after
this upsets and thrilling finishes are
U.S. women's rugby team on historic upset
the stuff Olympics are famous for but it
would be hard to top what happened on
the rugby pitch here yesterday yester
when the American women pulled off a win
for the ages a moment they relive with
me today they're going to have to go the
distance here Team USA was losing to
Australia with 8 seconds to go when Alex
spiff Cedric somehow broke a tackle and
then sprinted down the field spiff
Cedric's away the last few moments of
the match felt like a sports move you
know where it's in slow motion the
clock's ticking down the sweat is
Flowing is it did it feel that way to
you I mean it probably couldn't have
panned out any better better I mean we
all would have liked it to not be down
to the last second but there is no time
left and I'm just eyes forward I'm like
run straight something will work out for
me she's going to take it all the way
Cedric for the
USA so that brings you to the tie but
you've got to get the conversion kick
which I completely forgot about yeah
what do you mean you forgot about it I I
was just like oh my God that was amazing
we won and then everyone was you thought
it was over I thought it was over yeah
not quite while she's not typically a
kicker she'
that morning just in case it paid off
there it is Cedric with the conversion
and Team USA make history I can't stop
watching that video of her like before I
go to bed I watch it and I woke up I
watched it again I mean being in that
moment I I was behind her and I was like
no way no way she's going to do it she's
going to do it we're going to name we're
all going to name our kids
spith we first introduce you to Alona on
Nightly News on Sunday she's got lots of
fans nearly 2 million on Tik Tok I am
officially a fan women's drug be we got
Jason Kelsey football player Jason Kelce
who wore a shirt with her face on it but
none bigger than her family ecstatic and
emotional in the stands we went into
this tournament knowing we kind of
needed a medal for our program our
program depended on a medal because we
needed to show our value and our worth
that you know in seven we haven't won
one in any of the Olympics so we we knew
that this was kind of it we're just
passing through the Jersey so we want to
set it up better for the next
generation and next she's the daughter
of Ethiopian immigrants now Naomi germa
is at the heart of Team USA's run to
return to Greatness on the soccer
pitch the US Women's Soccer Team
Rising U.S. soccer star Naomi Girma shines
advancing to The Knockout round here in
Paris beating Australia Today 2 to one
and tonight one of the team's Rising
Stars Naomi germa is opening up about
leading a new generation of soccer
standouts she spoke with our Steve
Patterson with her dazzling defense look
at the speed of GMA and fearless focus
makes everything look so easy Naomi GMA
doesn't let any get past her Naomi gmma
has been outstanding I'm pretty composed
calm as a Defender I like to read the
play during last year's Women's World
Cup germa was is at the heart of a
defense that allowed just one goal in
four games
but in Paris many of soccer's famous
faces are gone replaced by a new
generation even though 24-year-old germa
is one of eight players without any
Olympic experience they're calling you
like one of the veterans it is weird to
be called a veteran I don't know if I
see myself as that but yeah I think just
going out there and making sure that I
can kind of lead in any way that's
helpful GMA grew up in San Jose both her
parents immigrated from Ethiopia her mom
for Education her dad escaping a brutal
Civil War War to give his kids and
Community a way to connect germa's
father established the Mala soccer club
a way for Ethiopian immigrant families
to find a home through football what
does it mean to you it's just bringing
the kids together so they know their
Heritage their identity their culture it
was just the most low stakes fun
introduction to soccer that I could have
and it helped me fall in love with the
game without any pressure germa's
parents didn't know much about the world
of elite soccer in the US so she often
leaned done friends and coaches I think
being a first generation kid can be
difficult at times because you feel like
you're like navigating Two Worlds Both
Worlds incredibly important to GMA it's
one of my favorites something I saw
firsthand when she took me to her
favorite Ethiopian restaurant it's
delicious you like it it's very good my
culture is really special and it isn't
something to hide or be ashamed of she
feels the same way about mental health
since losing her best friend and former
Stanford teammate Katie Meyer to suicide
GMA has been fighting to dispel its
stigma in sports it's a hard thing to be
a professional athlete something we talk
about is how important it is to look at
Players as people and realize they're
human a purpose she feels is worth far
more than any metam I just want to be
someone who left their Mark and helped
people feel like they belong Steve
Patterson NBC News San
Diego coming up just what is the deal
with that funny looking mascot here at
the Olympics it's a story that begins
hundreds of years ago
Just what is that odd-looking Paris Olympics mascot?
next look who I ran into in the stands
at the beach volleyball competition here
in Paris rapper Snoop Dog who has become
quite the fixture at these games and
there is someone else you see everywhere
you look the Olympic mascot but the
question is what exactly is it here's
Stephanie
gos at the Olympics the mascot plays
starring role hyping the crowd taking
selfies but there's a question a lot of
people have this summer in Paris what is
this what is this what is it well it's
the Olympic mascot what did you think it
was when you first saw it I I don't know
neither did I are these the arms they
well I think they're the arms these are
certainly the legs turns out the mascot
is actually a hat the character is f a
what how's your French pronunciation not
great
F pretty good A little bit more f ah
there you go perfect a hat with huge
significance in French history during
the French Revolution in the 1780s they
were wearing this as a sign of Liberty
you know getting away from the monarchy
in fact the fge was worn at the famous
storming of the bastile right where
podcaster Oliver G and I are standing
imagine in the 1780s there was a big
prison there and uh it was storm this is
the start of the French Revolution
revolutionaries wearing hats similar to
this becoming an important symbol of of
Liberty and freedom they stormed the
bastile in the free in the freid with
one of these mascots tucked under their
arm not exactly but the popularity of
the Hat stuck in paintings and in the
culture so when it was announced as the
mascot to the 2024 Olympic Games the
French were thrilled kiosks like this
one are set up all across the city this
one is by the Arc de trie they sell all
sorts of stuff in there mugs bags and of
course mascots and they are flying off
the shelves after all who can resist a
humaniz hat with a history and a smile
strolling the
Sham Stephanie gos NBC News
Paris and there they go off together
that's Nightly News for this Wednesday
thank you for watching everyone I'm
Lester Holt please take care of yourself
and each other good night