let's bring in NBC News medical
contributor Dr Vin Gupta Dr Gupta walk
us through how this massive recall could
even happen in the first
place well Valerie unfortunately this is
a risk and this is why the FDA has
strict food safety protocols in place
but sometimes this happens leria
outbreaks do happen across the country
this is a particularly large one two
people unfortunately have died already
34 seriously ill uh but this is a risk
and this is why we need surveillance
systems in place we need to make make
sure our food supply is as safe as
possible and how concerning is leria is
this something that everyone should be
taking
seriously it is it is a serious
infection for those especially at the at
the extremes of age so newborns uh
frankly pregnant moms those that might
have weakened immune systems because of
medications they might be on so it is
serious for those who might have
weakened or impaired immune systems or
who might be medically higher risk and
what we see Valerie is about 16 get
these of serious infection every year
about 260 actually end up dying um and
again uh really what we'll see is that
symptoms begin about two weeks after uh
somebody has contaminated say deli meat
and so you have to yeah if if you're
worried about or if you thought you
might have eaten some contaminated deli
meat think about where what type of meat
you've been buying and it might be even
a few weeks after you actually had that
ingestion and what should consumers be
doing to make sure they aren't at any
risk here what what can they do
well you know I would say if you've
bought deli meat processed deli meat Bor
head uh brand anytime recently in the
last few weeks since the end of June
just throw it away you know there's a
list of 30 different products actually
even more on the CDC website that that
are that are under this recall it's very
complicated so if you're somebody that's
bought borehead recently since the end
of June assume that it's infected throw
it away and clean your refrigerator
surface with a with some type of
detergent cleaner really critical here
um and and just uh you know it's
important also to recognize and have a
conversation with your medical provider
if you're medically higher risk you
think you might have accidentally eaten
something uh to have a conversation
about prevention maybe early treatment
all right Dr Vin Gupta thank you so much
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media