former president Trump facing Fierce
backlash tonight after falsely claiming
vice president Harris who went to a
historically black college and is a
member of a black sorority did not
identify as black I didn't know she was
black until a number of years ago when
she happened to turn black and now she
wants to be known as black so I don't
know is she Indian or is she black I
respect either one but she obviously
doesn't because she was Indian all the
way and then all of a sudden she made a
turn and she went she became a black
just the White House responding in real
time what you just read out to me is
repulsive it's insulting Harris is the
daughter of Indian and Jamaican
immigrants and it was the same old
show the
divisiveness and the
disrespect and let me just
say the American people deserve better
it all unfolded during an often
combative interview at a black
journalism conference the former
president there at a court black voters
I've done so much for the black
population of this country uh including
uh employment including uh opportunity
zones but later was pressed about his
comments that the record number of
migrants have hit the black population
hard taking what he termed black jobs
coming from the border are millions and
millions of people that happen to be
taking black jobs you had the best what
exactly is a black job sir a black job
is anybody that has a job that's what it
is anybody that has a job and they're
taking they're taking the employment
away from black people the Trump
campaign has been going after Harris on
immigration she unleashed the worst
border crisis in American history on her
watch but Harris flipping the script
overnight pointing to Trump's efforts to
Scuttle a bipartisan border Bill he said
wasn't Tough Enough he tanked tanked the
bipartisan deal because he thought it
would help him win an
election which goes to show Donald Trump
does not care about border of
security he only cares about himself
Trump defiant tonight blasting the
questions at that event as rude and
nasty while Source close to the Harris
campaign describes them as painful and
completely unhinged thanks for watching
stay updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media

