CU and in the Middle East this evening
there is growing fear of a broader war
between Israel and Iranian back
militants after the killing of top
leaders of both Hamas and Hezbollah Raph
Sanchez is in Tel Aviv tonight
Raph Lester Israel is bracing for
retaliation on multiple fronts tonight
and now the state department issuing a
stark new warning to US citizens get out
of South Lebanon because new fighting
may be about to erupt
tonight cries for revenge against Israel
echoing across the Middle East after the
Brazen assassination of hamas's
political Chief in the heart of the
Iranian Capital isma Han killed in an
Israeli missile strike just hours after
meeting Iran's supreme leader according
to State media Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu tonight refusing to
say if his country was responsible but
warning Israel will exact a heavy price
for any aggression against us now fears
growing that Han's violent death could
derail fragile ceasefire talks and Spark
a wider War the White House racing to
keep diplomacy alive I think it's too
soon to know what any of these reported
events uh could mean for the ceasefire
deal that doesn't mean we're going to
stop working on it 84-year-old odad
lifshitz kidnapped on October 7th has
been held hostage in Gaza for
299 days we met his grandson Daniel do
you think Benjamin Netanyahu is serious
about getting a deal to bring the
hostages home I think that if he's not
serious about getting the hostages home
the Americans need to make all the
necessary pressure that he will do so a
thousand miles away from Iran in Beirut
the capital of
Lebanon Hezbollah confirming one of its
top commanders was killed by an Israeli
strike Israel says fuad shucker was
responsible for the deaths of 12
children in a rocket attack but Lebanon
says this brother and sister were also
killed in the Israeli bomb end a cycle
of Revenge that's taking the region to
the brink of War Raph Sanchez NBC News
Tel Aviv thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media