good morning good to have you with us on
this Thursday I'm Joe frier Savannah
sers is On Assignment it is day six of
competition at the Olympics and Team USA
has plenty to celebrate this morning as
more events get underway American
athletes won four more medals on
Wednesday that brings the team's total
medal count to 30 maybe perhaps 31 as we
see there keeping the US in the top spot
for most medals won by any country so
far the real Legacy moment from
yesterday happened in the swimmer Katie
Lei shattered her previous record in the
1500 meter freestyle where she now holds
the fastest times in the world it might
be time to call that event the Lei the
US men's basketball team also had a big
day a doubl digigit win against South
Sudan helped them advance to the
quarterfinals another us team still in
medal contention is the women's national
soccer team they beat Australia in the
final match of group play and will now
face off against Japan on Saturday and
to cap off team USA's history making
moments Evie leeart became the first
American woman to ever medal in Solo
canoe she's taking home the bronze medal
on Deck today the women's gymnastics
allaround finals the world will be
watching as Simone biles continues her
epic Olympic comeback tour hoping to win
gold in the event that she won back in
Rio in 2016 we're going to have full
team coverage of the latest from Paris
throughout the morning let's start with
NBC News Now anchor Tom who spoke with
Lei after she won Gold in the 1500
freestyle a win that cements her place
in US Olympic history 25 M left for Lei
to make more history Katie Lei sitting
on top of the Olympic world and the
greatest swimming machine we've ever
seen rolls off to another gold here in
Paris the Superstar swimmer now tied for
the most medals held by any American
female olympian with 12 blowing past her
competition in the 15 00 M freestyle a
race she has absolutely dominated for
years to bring home the gold and set a
new Olympic record look and listen to
this Arena they are going wild for one
of the greatest ever Katie Ludi she came
to Paris chasing history tonight no one
could catch her so uh take me back to
the pool you hit the wall see you
celebrating see you come out you just
jump up in the air talk to me about that
moment why was this one so special I
just wanted to swim a time that I would
be really happy with and and that was do
and um you know it's never easy to win a
gold medal so I I don't take it for
granted and I'm just trying to take it
day by day and she's not done yet lki
will have two more chances to leave
Paris as the most decorated female
Olympian in US history what more can
America expect from you at these Paris
games I'm going to get my best effort
each race and and represent team us the
best of my ability and hopefully bring
home some more Hardware Tory husk is
coming to the wall and a surprise silver
for us swimmer Tory Husk in the 100
meter free her third medal of the game
so far I really trusted in my race plan
and my coach and what he was telling me
so I knew it was possible but it's still
so excited to be on the podium again and
I think that the competition really
brought out the best to me I saw you hug
your parents I know swimming is a family
sport in the sense that your parents are
there they drop you off they're there
for all the practices what's it been
like to share these medals with your
family it's been so nice especially
after Tokyo when they couldn't come
because of Co it's so nice to like get
to share these moments with them it
makes it so much more special Edwards
left alone Splash veterans LeBron James
and Kevin Durant leading an All-Star
men's basketball squad to a smooth
victory over South Sudan now heading
into The Knockout round as the team goes
for its fifth straight gold
medal but it was a tough day for the
men's gymnastics team after a Monumental
Bronze finish in the Team final both
Fred Richard and Paul Judah fell short
in the individual all around and a
disappointing Olympics continues for
tennis star Coco go who was knocked out
of the doubles tournament after losing
in the third round of singles
competition and on the men's side Rafael
Nadal's Olympics and possibly his career
coming to an end as Nadal caraz fell to
the Americans she does have a great run
going oh went for the front flip we have
not seen that in competition here in
Paris in women's BMX freestyle a
heartbreaking moment for five-time world
champion Hannah Roberts who crashed but
Triumph for her teammate and Paris BAS
has jumped into second place with a
90.7 Paris benegas coming out of the
gate with a strong performance to secure
silver in the triathlon pollution nearly
led to the swimming portion being called
off but today organizers felt it was
safe enough to jump in athletes say the
toughest part was the current here's
Kelly Chang one of the great players in
the world and she puts it away American
beach volleyball Duo Kelly Chang and
Sarah Hughes winning a hard-fought match
against France as they strive for old
Snoop Dog is in the house cheered on by
their biggest fan none other than rapper
Snoop Dogg all thanks to Tom yamas for
sharing some of Wednesday's historic
Olympic highlights speaking of historic
or perhaps more appropriately iconic
let's bring in NBC sports reporter Jimmy
Roberts who's also a host on NBC's Golf
Channel Jimmy good morning thank you so
much for joining me I know Paris marks
the 20th Olympic games you've covered
which is an incredible Milestone you
remain one of my favorite storytellers
at the game
I'm curious what's been your favorite
moment so far what are you looking
forward to most now
too you know every day I wake up and
it's a it's a gift it's such a surprise
I think about all the surprises which
always make up the best stories in the
games I keep on going back to two in
particular not here but many years ago
in Sydney Eric musani and many people
may not remember that name but he was
known colloquially as Eric the e a guy
who could barely swim was in the pool by
himself and got such a rousing and
memorable Round of Applause from the
Australians who love swimming um and the
other one was rouan Gardner and that too
was in Sydney and he beat Alexander
Kellan who was absolutely literally
unbeatable at that point and here came
this Farm Boy to beat him stuff like
that always happens you know it's great
to see the Simone biles and the US men's
basketball team and my favorite moment
honestly so far to answer your question
I have a way of taking a long time to
answer a question um I think is the the
way the US rugby team the women's team
the way that bronze medal game ended the
other day just at the buzzer first time
that you know the US women had ever won
a medal in rugby at the games I thought
it was fantastic it's always the moments
that you don't see coming that make the
Olympics you know Paris obviously is
very different from Tokyo the Crowds Are
Back and Forth for Force I wonder if
there's a sense the game themselves have
been reinvigorated because people are
are looking to reconnect I mean what's
your sense what's the mood like
there well it feels like old times right
now and it seems like Tokyo and uh you
know that the Olympics that we have had
to kind of endure I would say during the
pandemic it just seems like a million
years ago I mean Paris is such an
amazing City it's joyous it's no
different I think than it is any other
time that I've been here it's true to
character and I think that this is just
such a perfect location for games um
it's um it's special I mean there are
some great places when you think about
where the Olympics have been and where
they're going but I think it's perfectly
in character for Paris to host these
games considering what our most recent
history was how is it that you prepare
for the game and think this is going to
be the perfect Jimmy Roberts story this
is what I need to
cover you know I it's my dirty little
secret and we'll just keep it between us
and we won't tell anybody but I don't
prepare I just wake up every day and I
you know I'm hopeful that some kind of
story will present itself you know and
there there are so many here there was a
medalist yesterday who won bronze a
woman in the the backstroke she won at
32 years after her father had won the
very same medal in the very same event
for men things like that just kind of
strike me and those stories are all over
the games and as I said before you know
it's easy to pay attention to Simone
biles she's amazing and by the way 27
years old you know she's kind of not
only the greatest of all time but she's
the oldest woman to win an Olympic gold
medal in 60 years I mean that's just
remarkable but those stories are right
there for everybody to consume Katie Lei
we're talking about this last night
Katie Lei hasn't lost the 1500 M any
1500 meter race in 14 years that means
she hasn't lost since the Obama
Administration the first Obama
administration so stuff like that is
just I it's just wonderful and for me
that's what sports are all about sure
it's the numbers Katie Leck he's got the
20 fastest times of all time in that
event but it's the human story they used
to be a line on the old program ABC's
Wide World of Sports which was how I
broke into the industry as a production
assistant working on that show and one
of the opening lines to that show was
the human drama of athletic competition
and while we all want to see the
competition I think it's the human
stories that so many of us are here for
that's always been the thing that's
attracted me Jimmy Roberts we could
probably talk to you all day long but we
will let you go thank you so much for
joining us this morning we really do
appreciate it it's my pleasure all right
and you can catch today's Olympic events
including the women's gymnastics
allaround finals featuring Simone biles
on NBC and streaming on peacock turning
to politics now Vice President kamla
Harris is responding to controversial
comments made by former president Trump
about her racial identity saying the
American people deserve better Mr
Trump's statements came during a
question and answer session yesterday at
the annual convention for the National
Association of black journalists which
is taking place in Chicago he falsely
suggested that the vice president had
decided to quote turn black only
recently for political gain NBC's
Garrett H has details and the
reaction former president Trump facing
Fierce backlash after falsely claiming
vice president Harris who went to a
historically black college and is a
member of a black sorority did not
identify as black I didn't know she was
black until a number of years ago when
she happened to turn black and now she
wants to be known as black so I don't
know is she Indian or is she black I
respect either one but she obviously
doesn't because she was Indian all the
way and then all of a sudden she made a
turn and she went she became a black
person just the White House responding
in real time what you just read out to
me is repulsive it's insulting Harris is
the daughter of Indian and Jamaican
immigrants and it was the same old
show the device iess and the
disrespect and let me just
say the American people deserve better
it all unfolded during an often
combative interview at a black
journalism conference the former
president there to court black voters
I've done so much for the black
population of this country uh including
uh employment including uh opportunity
zones but later was pressed about his
comments that the record number of
migrants have hit the black population
hard taking what he termed black jobs
coming from the border are millions and
millions of people that happen to be
taking black jobs you had the best what
exactly is a black job sir a black job
is anybody that has a job that's what it
is anybody that has a job and they're
taking they're taking the employment
away from black people the Trump
campaign has been going after Harris on
immigration she unleashed the worst
border crisis in American history on her
watch but Harris flipping the script
pointing to Trump's efforts to Scuttle a
bipartisan border Bill he said wasn't
Tough Enough he tanked tanked the
bipartisan deal because he thought it
would help him win an
election which goes to show Donald Trump
does not care about border of
security he only cares about
himself and that was Garrett hake
reporting the former president went on
to blast the questions at the event
calling them rude and nasty we should
note many journalists are applauding the
moderator specifically ABC's Rachel
Scott for their questions and follow-ups
for more on this let's bring in NBC News
campaign Ed namdi aan iguan Wu NY good
to have you with us so you were there
let's talk first hours after the former
president's controversial remarks at the
convention he held his first campaign
rally in Pennsylvania since last month's
assassination attempt he continued to
criticize the vice president let's
listen to a snippet of that and we'll
talk on the other
side no matter how much Ca Harris tries
to change her image she cannot change
this fact she is the most extreme
liberal candidate in the history of our
country by far she's an extreme radical
left
lunatic all right so let's rewind a
little bit you were there at the nabj
convention in Chicago in the room what
was the mood like during the what were
maybe some of the things that we could
hear but we couldn't necessarily
see yeah Joe I have to tell you just
coming into that room ahead of Trump's
remarks even there was high anxiety over
exactly what he was going to say you
know members of the organization were
very very split about him being invited
to attend this conference in the first
place so people were sort of walking on
xels to see whether or not he would come
and sort of Tamp himself down or be the
typical Brash Donald Trump that we're
used to and it was very clear
immediately when he hit the state that
he was going to be the Donald Trump that
we're used to you know I think for as
far as the reception from the crowd when
he came out there was no applause you
know when he started immediately
attacking ABC's Rachel Scott as being
hostile and asking rude questions there
were gasp in the room uh there were
booes uh at several points including
when he referenced vice president
Harris's race suggesting that she sort
of has only turned black in recent years
so uh as he was sort of getting
combative the audience was very much so
showing their displeasure with his some
of his remarks you know um I remember at
a certain point there was a gentleman in
the back when he started suggesting that
uh immigrants were coming in and taking
black jobs who attempted to y stand up
and yell a question but was sort of
eventually drowned out you know there
the audience was making it known exactly
how they felt about Trump's comments in
real times and you can actually hear it
in some of the audio clips you've been
playing just the several gas moments of
exasperation people just sort of stunned
at what they were hearing that continued
throughout the event which ultimately
was cut short and ended with Donald
Trump kind of walking off the stage to
some booze NY you mentioned there was a
lot of debate about whether this should
even happen in the first place in the
end what was the feeling did people who
attended it feel like yeah this was in
the end a good thing for the
organization to
do I have to be honest with you I think
a lot of the critics of this move
probably felt validated by the time the
event ended you know before Trump
started speaking he was already on Truth
social attacking KLA Harris for not
attending and that was a concern that he
was merely using this opportunity to
score political points and and you know
have another opportunity to blast his
opponents um so I think at the end of it
a lot of people there's some who say hey
at least some of these members got to
see Donald Trump in person for the first
time something that you know you know
some journalists are able to do often
but others in that room never had but
for the most part I think a lot of
people ultimately felt like this did
more harm to the organization and good
although the or organizers will tell you
this is a long president and you know
they've invited candidates of both
parties in the past but of course Donald
Trump is not like uh most other
candidates from the past as we heard in
Garrett's piece setting this up vice
president Harris responded directly to
his remarks during a campaign stop last
night in Houston what else is she saying
about this
controversy yeah you know the vice
president she responded but in a way
that is sort of allows her to keep her
positioning as being a more positive
alternative to Donald Trump she often
talks about wanting to take America to a
future where diversity is embrac and you
know she represent is representative of
her Coalition of Voters which come of
course from voters of all Stripes all
colors all backgrounds so she did hit on
this remarks during her event yesterday
um sort of suggesting that uh Donald
Trump is a leader who uh responds with
hostility and anger and she of course
isn't take a listen to what she had to
say the American people deserve a leader
who tells the
truth a leader who does not respond with
hostility and anger when confronted with
the
facts we deserve a leader who
understands that our differences do not
divide
us they are an essential source of our
strength yeah you know that's pretty
much in line with what vice president
Harris has said about Donald Trump
throughout her presidential run already
often calling him as someone who is
hostile responds with anger and saying
that's not what the American people
needs particularly in a moment when when
many voters are you know craving some
form of unity in the country all right
namd uanu thank you so much for joining
us this morning we appreciate
it also this morning nearly 23 years
after 911 three men accused of plotting
the attacks including the alleged
masterm khed shik Muhammad have agreed
to a plea deal with the US government
officials say the men are scheduled to
appear at a hearing at the military
prison at Guantanamo Bay Cuba next week
as of now details of the plea agreement
remain unclear but the defendants are
expected to plead guilty to lesser
charges that could spare them the death
penalty the defense department said that
the three suspects were initially
charged back in 2008 with war crimes and
murder for their alleged roles in the
attack that claimed nearly 3,000 lives
the men are not likely to be sentenced
for several months in the Middle East
hundreds gathered in Tyron today for the
funeral of top Hamas leader Ismael hania
Hamas and Iran are accusing Israel of
assassinating hania but Israeli
officials have not yet commented on the
attack Neo was a top political leader
and one of the key Hamas negotiators for
a potential ceasefire deal in Gaza now
global leaders are concerned that any
deal might be Out Of Reach NBC News
International correspondent Matt Bradley
is live in Beirut with the latest Matt
good morning so what more can you tell
us about the service today and what are
Iranian officials saying about the
possibility of
retaliation well Joe yeah it's actually
more than one service we're seeing one
here in beay for for that Hezbollah
leader who was killed just 2 days ago so
what we're seeing now in the Middle East
Twin assassinations twin funerals 2 Days
Later a very destabilizing Matrix of
different forces that are protesting
against the Israelis who they accuse of
committing both the Israelis have only
CED to one the one here in Beirut of
that Hezbollah leader but that one in
Iran that is you know a Hamas leader one
who was much wanted by the Israelis and
so now we're starting to see all of
these Iran backed groups be it Hezbollah
here in Lebanon Hamas in the Gaza Strip
the huis in Yemen they're all coalescing
even more than they were before around
fighting the Israelis so when I say
these Iran back groups this is the
so-called axis of resistance that have
for the first time since those October
7th attacks been acting in concert and
now really for the first time the
Israelis seem to be attacking them in
concert as well the real worry here is
that all of these fingers of the Iranian
regime spread throughout the entire
region are going to close into a fist
and that that is going to create a major
problem not just for the Israelis but
also for the Americans their allies you
know Matt we know that ceas fair
negotiations are at a standstill right
now what's the US saying about all
this well it sounds as though they are
pessimistic and it was only a couple of
days ago that they said that the idea of
allout war in the Middle East was not
inevitable that it was unlikely 2 Days
Later wow things have really changed and
there was only a week ago that they said
that there was some optimism around this
deal but Joe I got to tell you these
assassinations uh they're not
necessarily the ones that are going to
be undermining these negotiations in any
real way because these negotiations were
already very much undermined they didn't
need the help of the Israelis to
assassinate these leaders it has been 10
months of negotiating the only last one
successful one was all the way back in
November uh and we've been hearing again
bursts of optimism time and time again
uh that have been taken down by the
reality of the situation which is that
both of the sides Hamas and Israel
cannot come to agreement on the one main
issue which is the timeline for the
Israeli full withdrawal from the Gaza
Strip so yes these assassinations have
definitely frustrated those negotiations
but it really we have to remember here
that those negotiations didn't need any
help from the Israelis with these
assassinations in order to be more
abundant as they have been for months
all right Matt Bradley Matt thank you so
much let's turn now for your morning
news now forecast we've got scattered
storms expected across the East plus the
Heat still making headlines Angie
lassman's here with the forecast Angie
good morning Good morning Joe yes it is
you've got that right we've got rain
we've got some really warm temperatures
to talk about let's start with the rain
that actually will progress into the
potential for some strong and even
severe storms by the time we get through
the day today though a lot of us are
still waking up to some wet weather
we've got most of that batch of rain
focused across parts of Illinois but
we've seen it uh across a good chunk of
this area here over the morning hours so
still might run into some wet roads if
you get out and about in places like at
Kansas City or St Louis Cedar Rapids
even was dealing with rain earlier and
you can see that stretches up into
portions of the Upper Midwest too
Minneapolis dry right now but some
showers are in the vicinity this is
going to continue to move to the east as
the day goes on and as we get those
temperatures ramping up we'll see plenty
of instability plenty of warmth for some
of those thunder storms to kind of spark
uh Stronger more impactful uh imp
effects I should say 29 million people
at risk of this here the main thing
we're going to be concerned about the
wind gust kind of like yesterday we got
the potential to see wind gust over 60
miles per hour it's not quite as strong
as what we were looking at yesterday but
still the hail maybe an isolated tornado
on the table take note of those major
cities that are included in this St
Louis Indianapolis Evansville all have
the potential to see that this is from a
system that's on the move over the next
couple of days so today it's the severe
risk it's also the heavy rain that we'll
track but tomorrow we'll kind of keep
the scattered showers and thunderstorms
in the picture for a a good area of the
East that's the Mid-Atlantic up into the
Northeast even parts of the Midwest and
the Great Lakes still dealing with some
of that and we'll see some G winds and
some heavy rain possible today that
Heavy Rain that I mentioned uh it's
going to be impressive from Madison for
Madison Chicago Indianapolis Cincinnati
stretching down into parts of Kentucky
too so heads up we could see some flash
flooding concern I think ranges anywhere
from an inch to two inches but some
higher amounts will be possible too so
be mindful of that also we've still got
all those wildfires happening out west
and the smoke is continuing to be on the
move and causing problems specifically
uh with air quality we've got the
unhealthy groups uh dealing with that
across a good area of the Country Joe
but notice Denver is dealing with it the
unhealthy conditions for smoke and ozone
so something for folks to note there
sure that impacts so many people all
right Angie thank you so much appreciate
it thanks for watching stay updated
about breaking news and top stories on
the NBC News app or follow us on social
media