ComicCon it's the ultimate charade but
what law enforcement found behind some
masks was not just cosplay in here
everybody's like a disguise it's like
Halloween okay they feel like they are
invisible director of bilateral safety
corridor Coalition Marissa Ugarte is
cheering on the 35 to 50 undercover
officers with the San Diego human
trafficking task force working ComicCon
daily to make so many arrests finding
these buyers uh you know or predators of
the 14 people arrested for me was
like 10 women one of them just 16 years
old the rest in their 20s and 30s were
liberated from their traffickers in this
sting operation yar's organization will
be caretaking some of those adults we'll
do Crisis Intervention we do case
management we find them jobs housing and
everything San Diego ranks third
for human trafficking among a list of
large cities the state attorney general
who organized this ComicCon sting says
that he's working sex trafficking cases
here all year round during ComicCon task
force members posed undercover as sex
buyers to contact potential victims and
arrest their attackers fake
advertisements soliciting sex were also
posted to arrest further buyers we will
uh detect you uh we will dismantle your
operation we will arrest you and hold
you
accountable the 14 arrested face
solicitation charges attorney general
Rob Bon tells NBC 7 large events that
draw hundreds of thousands of people
like ComicCon attract traffickers and
sex buyers these events unfortunately
often uh come with a heightened level of
human trafficking activity the Attorney
General says there were numerous sex
trafficking arrests in the months
leading up to ComiCon for someone whose
organization takes credit for liberating
over 3,000 th victims since its Creation
in 2005 Ugarte calls this ComicCon sting
a success on one operation this is a big
number Dave Summers NBC 7 thanks for
watching stay updated about breaking
news and top stories on the NBC News app
or follow us on social media

