good morning we are coming on the air
with breaking news four American
citizens detained in Russia have just
been released as part of a prisoner swap
involving multiple Nations among those
now free Wall Street Journal reporter
Evan gershkovich and Marine veteran Paul
whan I want to show you now a live look
at an airport in Turkey where the
exchange is believed to be taking place
journalist alsu Kiva and Vladimir karura
a pro-democracy Advocate have also been
released that is that runway in Turkey
there Evan gershkovich remember had been
sentenced to 16 years in prison charged
with Espionage he's been held in Russia
since March of 2023 in a case denounced
by the US government as a sham Paul
Wayland was also serving a 16-year
sentence for spying and spent more than
five years beh Behind Bars this is a
significant moment now for the American
government obviously for these American
citizens who are now on their way back
to the United States and it is historic
believed to be perhaps the biggest
prisoner swap since the Cold War I want
to get to Gabe Gutierrez who's following
it all uh and Gabe walk us through some
of the details of how we got here and
what is next yeah that's right hie some
of these details are just breaking right
now and as you said the Biden
Administration says that this is the
largest such prisoner exchange involving
the number of individuals since the Cold
War and potentially the largest as far
as officials here know ever in terms of
how many countries are involved now Hy
let me walk you through it those
countries involved of course the US
Russia Germany Norway Slovenia and
Poland and you mentioned we had been
waiting to to hear if these high-profile
Americans uh Wall Street J reporter Evan
gusich and Paul wean were part of this
prisoner off and we're now told that
they are now we also understand that at
some point this morning President Biden
is expected to meet with the families of
those prisoners who were released here
at the White House now the details that
we're also learning from senior
Administration officials are dramatic
this was something that had been in the
works for a long time and the Biden
Administration has repeatedly said that
it's top one of its priorities is
bringing home the families of those that
are wrongfully detained around the world
since 2021 when the president took
office they've been able to secure the
release of around 70 individuals as well
but in this particular case there had
been along of H several Hang-Ups hie as
you know Paul whan had been expected to
be part of a PR of a previous prisoner
exchange involving WNBA star Britney
Griner he was not included in that
exchange he is in this one and uh we
understand that the president was
speaking directly with the German
chancellor who was ALS who was involved
in this exchange because one of the
high-profile um prisoners given back to
Russia is a is a man named Vadim krakov
now he of course was convicted of murder
in Germany for for uh murdering a
Russian dissident and that apparently
was a huge key to this prisoner exchange
it is something that the Russians
absolutely needed now we're told by
senior administration of officials that
President Biden was speaking with the
German Chancellor at one point many
times by phone but at one at one point
he met with the chancellor and
Chancellor Schultz responded to the
president by saying for you I will do
this so hie significant in that appar
apparently the Germans at least
according to this senior Administration
official went through with this prisoner
swap at the direct request of President
Biden and here at the White House this
is being seen as a major foreign policy
win officials here are also cautioning
though that this should not be
interpreted as any sort of shift in the
terms of US policy towards Russia this
is a very transactional in nature of
course and it was a tough call to be
able to trade this uh suspect this that
was being held in Germany uh as well as
others for um these uh four these four
Americans actually three US citizens and
one legal permanent president Ally
thanks for watching stay updated about
breaking news and top stories on the NBC
News app or follow us on social media

