we're back with a new study that might
have you thinking twice about reaching
for that sweet treat at the grocery
store research shows that dark chocolate
products sold at Major retailers may
contain high levels of heavy metals like
Le cadmium even arsenic though we want
to mention while those levels were high
none of them reached the maximum
allowable dose for human consumption NBC
News medical contributor Dr kabina Patel
joins us now for more on this Dr Patel
good morning so how worried should we be
about the heavy metal level in dark
chocolate can it potentially cause
serious damage to our
bodies yeah any amount of lead that's
above kind of what the FDA deems as an
acceptable exposure and in this case
they found that 43% of the chocolates
they tested in California were above
that acceptable level of lead are just
not great for developing brains
especially young children but for any
adult so it just goes to say that you
should do all of this with moderation in
and in moderation it's like not that
dangerous so we should note the FDA
doesn't set limits on heavy metals in
most foods which is something that when
I read this morning kind of raise my
eyebrows a little bit so how can we be
sure that we are limiting our own
exposure to these chemicals is there a
Surefire way to avoid them in our daily
diets or maybe avoid excessive
amounts yeah and I think that the way to
avoid an excessive amount is by avoiding
eating an excessive amount Joe I know
that seems intuitive but what might
surprise people is that it can be even a
third of a candy bar that can result in
that quote unquote excessive amount so
it's a small amount darker chocolates
tend to have higher amounts of lead if
people are wondering is there certain
brands we can go into that but you
usually need a third- party like
Consumer Reports where you can kind of
look at some of the brands and it might
surprise people who might think well
organic might be better or inorganic
might not be but you need to just
moderate how much you eat and especially
if you're younger we need to make sure
that they are not eating high amounts of
this chocolate you know consumers who
are worried about the quality of their
food they often turn to organic options
is a way to reduce the risk of ingesting
these heavy metals are organic foods
screen for toxins metals like this what
should people know so these this study
did include organic foods and they did
find higher levels again this is
somewhat surprising to most people
because they make choices just as you
mentioned so they did find higher levels
of B lead and cadmium in the organic
chocolate as well so it's not just
choosing organic and you can eat more
than that third of a candy bar a day you
need to watch all your consumption and
people wonder how this happens Joe it's
usually in the processing of the cocoa
the cacao bean that kind of goes into
what you make chocolate with from soil
and kind of contamination and handling
it's not that the chocolate or the cacao
itself has the lead inside of it so now
we need to understand how can we limit
that exposure but that's going to take
time in the meantime limit your personal
exposure all right Dr gabita Patel
always good to have you with us thank
you so much thanks for watching stay
updated about breaking news and top
stories on the NBC News app or follow us
on social media